                                                 page    1
 
 
 
 
        1    Introduction
 
        The PLATO Configuration Handbook describes the method of
        configuring the PLATO application.  Other documentation for
        the PLATO application can be found in the:
 
            PLATO Operations Guide             SMD 133345
            PLATO Installation Guide           SMD 133346
            PLATO Configuration Handbook       SMD 133347
            PLATO Software Release Bulletin    SMD 133348
 
        This handbook is divided into two major sections.
 
            - a description of configuration parameters and procedures
              which are common to all systems
 
            - several appendices, each of which describes configuration
              parameters and procedures for features of the PLATO
              application which are only used on a few systems.
 
                                                 page    2
 
 
 
 
        2    Deadstart File
 
        This section describes only those things which are unique
        to deadstart files used with the PLATO application.  In all
        other respects, NOS standards, as described in the NOS
        Analysis Handbook, are followed.
 
                                                 page    3
 
 
 
 
        2.1    CMRDECKs
 
        There are currently no changes needed to CMRDECKs to support
        the PLATO system.
 
                                                 page    4
 
 
 
 
        2.2    EQPDECKs
 
        The following are required EQPDECK entries for systems using
        the PLATO application.
 
        1. All EQPDECKs must contain the following entries to define
           the mass storage device where the account log, system
           dayfile, error log, and maintenance log are placed:
 
                   ACCOUNT
                   DAYFILE
                   ERRLOG
                   MAINLOG
 
           These are necessary to prevent the system from defaulting
           to the first mass storage device, which will always be the
           Extended Memory (EM) device for systems running the PLATO
           application.  These system logs will interfere with the
           PLATO application if they are placed in EM.  This will
           result in error messages from PP/MXX such as "local file
           error" or "track allocation error" when attempting to load
           PLATO, or in a reduced amount of EM being assigned to the
           MASTOR control point.
 
           Note also that allowing other uses of EM may also interfere
           with the PLATO application.  These include using EM as an
           alternate system residence device, a temporary file device,
           a rollout file device, a checkpoint file device or a PF device.
           If User Extended Memory (UEM) is allocated, the "rax" and "flx"
           entries in the PLATO configuration file may have to be
           adjusted.
 
           This is due to the fact that the PLATO application reserves
           all of its needed EM tracks at load time, and also because
           the EM tracks must be in sequential order.  If NOS is making
           use of EM for some reason, there may be reserved tracks
           between the first track the PLATO application requests
           and reserves, and the last track it requests.  Generally
           this will result in PP/MXX issuing a "track allocation
           error" message and then aborting.  It may be possible to
           get around this situation if use of EM by other than the
           PLATO application is necessary by using the MSAL console
           command to restrict further usage of EM, and then waiting
           for current users to leave (e.g., allow rolled out jobs to
           roll in), before trying to load or reload the PLATO
           application.
 
        2. As part of the NOS RMS RAM Enhancement feature of NOS 2.4.2
           level 642, the THRESHOLD command was added to the EQPDECK.
           The important aspect of this command for PLATO sites is
           that NOS monitors disk packs for low space and issues a
           "SEE A,OPERATOR" message when a disk pack goes below the
           low space thresholds.  Since PLATO disk packs are normally
           very low in free space, sites should enter THRESHOLD
           commands for all PLATO disk equipments.  Both the RA and
           LS parameters of the command should be set to zero.  See
 
                                                 page    5
 
 
 
           the Features Notes for this release or the NOS Analysis
           Handbook for more information on this command.
 
        2.2.1    EQPDECKs
 
        CYBER 170-800 series mainframes require only the above
        EQPDECK entries and the DE EQPDECK entry used to describe
        the EM device for the proper operation of the PLATO
        application.
 
        The following describes EQPDECK entries for devices commonly
        used on PLATO systems running on CYBER 170-700 mainframes
        only.  These are in addition to the entries described above.
 
        These parameters are used:
 
            ord = One- to three-digit octal Equipment Status Table
                  (EST) ordinal of equipment
 
            st  = (status)  ON or OFF (usually ON)
 
            eq  = (equipment)  Controller number (may vary with
                  each system, the most commonly used number is shown)
 
            un  = Unit number (for most entries, this is not
                  applicable, so use 0)
 
            ch  = One- or two-digit octal number of the channel to
                  which the equipment is connected
 
 
        1.  SHARED LOW-SPEED PORT / DDP
 
            This entry defines a DDP or low-speed port for use by
            PP programs MRQ, PMS and MAS.
 
                EQord=D1,ST=st,EQ=5,UN=un,CH=ch.
 
            This entry is optional, but is normally used to improve
            performance.  If the D1 entry is not used, the PLATO
            configuration file parameter "ncmb" must be greater than
            zero.  This is to allow the PLATO disk driver (PMS) to
            perform disk transfers through a Central Memory (CM)
            buffer instead of through the low-speed/DDP port.
 
 
        2.  ESM SIDE-DOOR PORT
 
            This entry is used only when using Extended Semiconductor
            Memory (ESM) as the EM device.
 
                EQord=SP,ST=st,EQ=1,UN=un,CH=ch.
 
            Prior to NOS 2.1, ESM error monitoring on PLATO systems
            was only performed by program ESM.  Now, there are two
            options for ESM error monitoring.
 
 
                                                 page    6
 
 
 
            a. Use the SP EST entry as described above.  This identifies
               the ESM maintenance channel and allows program ESM to
               be used for error monitoring.
 
            b. Use the MC parameter on the ESM EST entry (DE).  This
               allows the operating system to perform error monitoring.
 
            Refer to the NOS V2 System Analysis Handbook for more
            information.  Also, read the section on "ESM Management"
            in this Handbook before choosing the method of error
            monitoring to be used on your system.
 
                                                 page    7
 
 
 
 
        2.3    LIBDECKs
 
        The following is a list of LIBDECK entries required for the
        PLATO application.  See the PLATO Operations Guide for more
        information on the following procedures.  These entries are
        delivered with the initial release of the PLATO application
        and placed in file LIBDIR under the PLATO user name by the
        installation procedures.
 
        *cm       pp/mas
        *cm       pp/4qf,4qg,4qh,4qi,4qj,4qk                 (mrq)
        *cm       pp/4ql,4qm,4qn,4qo,4qp,4qq                 (mrq)
        *cm       pp/4qr,4qs,4qt                             (mrq)
        *cm       pp/4qu        (mrq - 700 series mainframes only)
        *cm       pp/4pa,4pb                                 (pms)
 
 
        *proc     setpun                        (set plato user name)
        *proc     versx                         (version load)
        *proc     configx                       (get config)
        *proc     mfnx                          (attach master files)
        *proc     platx                         (load plato executor)
        *proc     framx                         (load framat)
        *proc     pnix                          (load pni)
        *proc     condx                         (load condensor)
        *proc     formcmd                       (format cm dump)
        *proc     emdtape                       (dump em for plato)
        *proc     copypd                        (copy plato dump)
        *proc     dumpprt                       (print cm dump)
        *proc     emprt                         (print em dump)
        *proc     pdcat                         (catalog plato dump)
        *proc     mftload                       (copy mf to disk)
        *proc     mftcopy                       (copy mf to tape)
        *proc     mfpack                        (mf pack utility)
        *proc     bkstart                       (backups)
        *proc     backdmp                       (backups)
        *proc     mfdx                          (backups)
        *proc     recoval                       (recover master files)
        *proc     recovmf                       (recover master file)
        *proc     pafterm                       (daily raf processor)
        *proc     endofbc                       (monthly bc processor)
        *proc     z1daily                       (daily acct sum processor)
        *proc     z1endbc                       (monthly acct sum processor)
        *proc     pcdconv                       (pcd3 uploader)
 
                                                 page    8
 
 
 
 
        2.4    IPRDECKs
 
        The following are required IPRDECK entries for systems using
        the PLATO application.
 
        1.  An "ENABLE,SCP." entry must be present to enable the
            system control point facility if the PLATO ASCII network
            is to be used on your system.
 
        2.  An "ENABLE,PLA,cp." entry must be present in the IPRDECK
            to specify "cp" as the control point where MASTOR will be
            loaded by the operating system when the "PLATO." DSD command
            is entered at the computer console.  The PLATO application
            occupies this control point and the following four control
            points.  To minimize storage moves of the programs which
            make up the PLATO application, it is recommended that
            you use the following control point configuration:
 
                    1.  IAF     (must be at control point 1)
                    2.  NAM     (controlled by ENABLE,NAM,cp. entry)
                    3.  MAS1    (controlled by ENABLE,PLA,cp. entry)
                    4.  PLA1    (controlled by submit file PLATOD)
                    5.  FOR1    (controlled by submit file PLATOD)
                    6.  PNI1    (controlled by submit file PLATOD)
                    7.  COA1    (controlled by submit file PLATOD)
 
        3.  A "DELAY" entry must be used to change the default values
            of the CPU recall time parameters.
 
            The following recommendations should be considered when
            setting the value of the "CR" parameter on the "DELAY"
            entry.
 
              -  Sites for which batch processing time is not a cri-
                 tical and/or scarce resource should use a setting
                 of 15B milliseconds.
 
              -  Single-CPU sites which use NAM for part or all of
                 their communications should set their CPU recall
                 period at 30B milliseconds (NOS standard) if they
                 have 50 or fewer PNI users; dual-CPU sites should
                 do so with PNI loads of up to 60 users.  Sites with
                 larger PNI loads should use a setting of 15B milli-
                 seconds for the CPU recall period.
 
                 Sites which deviate from this recommendation may
                 estimate their mean PNI echo time, using the fol-
                 lowing approximation:
 
                               CPU Recall Period
                                15B       30B       45B
 
                      1-CPU     155       197       220
                      2-CPU     145       185       221
 
              -  Sites with less than 150 users which use only CIU
 
                                                 page    9
 
 
 
                 communications should set their CPU recall period
                 to 30B milliseconds (NOS standard) or higher, up
                 to 45B.  If a site has more than 150 users, or if a
                 setting greater than 45B milliseconds is desired,
                 it may be necessary to experiment to find the high-
                 est acceptable setting.
 
        4.  Systems which are using ESM in ESM mode (as opposed to
            ECS mode) should add "X.ESM(NK)." as a DSD entry to
            ensure that this job runs as soon as the operating system
            is loaded to reload the relocation memory.
 
                                                 page   10
 
 
 
 
        3    The PLATO Configuration File
 
        The PLATO configuration ("config") file contains software
        parameters which may be unique on each system.  It allows
        the local site personnel control over resources which have
        considerable impact on performance.
 
        The "config" file is a text record on the deadstart tape.
        The first line in the "config" file must be the name of the
        record.  The PLATO application checks that the first six
        characters of the "config" file are the required letters
        "config".  However, multiple "config" files may exist, named
        "config1", "config2", etc.
 
        Comments may be added as lines starting with "*".  All lines
        that are not entirely comments must follow this format:
 
            parameter=value.  comment
 
        where:
 
            parameter = a valid keyword described in the
                        following sections
 
            value     = an appropriate setting for your system
 
            comment   = any additional comment you wish to make
 
                                                 page   11
 
 
 
 
        3.1    Types of Keywords
 
        The defined keywords can be divided into several different
        "types" dependent on what is controlled by that keyword.
 
        The following keywords control parameters affecting the
        PLATO Application as a whole and its interface to the
        operating system.
 
 
            Application load/drop control
 
                    nampd
 
            Security
 
                    passw
                    secur
                    syot
 
            Identification
 
                    famly
                    prtun
                    subun
 
            Extended memory allocation
 
                    flx
                    rax
 
            Application interface to network
 
                    nam
                    namto
 
            Background PLATO batch jobs
 
                    njob
                    cshar
 
 
        The following keywords control parameters affecting the
        PLATO Application as a whole internally.
 
            Application availability
 
                    instl
 
            Internal security
 
                    ptlim
                    pwbot
                    pwnot
                    pwoff
                    sysac
 
                                                 page   12
 
 
 
 
            PLATO system identification
 
                    rid
                    sid
 
            Central Processor speed
 
                    cpspd
 
            PLATO disk system resources
 
                    ncmb
                    ndsus
                    npms
 
            Internal extended memory allocation
 
                Parameters dependent on memory size
 
                    cblth
                    cdisk
                    fastl
                    forml
                    lesns
                    nparc
 
                Parameters dependent on number of users
 
                    jbnks
                    niob
                    nn1si
                    nsite
                    n1sit
                    quesz
                    users
 
                Internal formatter parameters
 
                    fofrl
 
                Author deletion parameters
 
                    edel1
                    edel2
                    edel3
                    sysdl
 
                EM manager parameters
 
                    emgr1
                    emgr2
                    emgr3
                    emgr4
 
            PLATO feature availability
 
 
                                                 page   13
 
 
 
                    cmp
                    confr
                    cstat
                    estat
                    mcond
                    ncond
 
            PLATO account parameters
 
                    nacnt
                    nalog
 
            Runner program parameters
 
                    nrunr
 
            Data formats
 
                    datef
                    timef
 
            Background PLATO batch job resources
 
                    bgecs
                    bgpct
 
            PLATO Inter-system Link parameters
 
                    netms
 
 
        See the "Keyword Definitions" section for an alphabetic
        list of keywords and their definitions.
 
        Keywords for the CIU network and for multi-mainframe systems
        are described in appendices later in this Handbook.
 
                                                 page   14
 
 
 
 
        3.2    Keyword Definitions
 
        The description of each configuration file entry includes
        the following information:
 
            keyword:  short definition of keyword
 
            complete definition of keyword
 
            restrictions on the value assigned to this keyword
            (if any apply)
 
            usual values for different configurations
 
            default value if this keyword is omitted from the
            configuration file
 
        The value assigned to a keyword may be one of the following.
 
            a positive decimal integer
            a positive octal integer (by specifying "b", i.e., 10b)
            the string ON
            the string OFF
            alphanumeric string of one to three characters
            alphanumeric string of one to seven characters
 
        When a parameter is dependent on memory size, this means the
        Extended Memory actually assigned to the PLATO application,
        not the entire physical EM size.
 
        The recommended values for all keywords should be considered
        as guidelines only, particularly those which are dependent
        on memory size.  All values may have to be adjusted for the
        maximum performance of the system.  Extreme care must be
        taken when changing these values.  Setting values far from
        the recommended or default values may have severe impact on
        system performance or load capacity.
 
                                                 page   15
 
 
 
 
        3.2.1    Keywords: A - B
 
        BGECS:  background batch job extended memory
 
            The value of "bgecs" is the number of 1000b-word blocks
            of extended memory within the extended memory field length
            of the application to be reserved for batch jobs (i.e.,
            PLATO print jobs, PF commands, etc.).
 
            For systems with ESM, this should be a multiple of 10b
            or it will be rounded up to the nearest multiple of 10b.
 
            For single mainframe systems, a value of 20b is usually
            sufficient.
 
            Default value:  20b
 
 
        BGPCT:  excess processing time (background) percentage
 
            The value of "bgpct" is used to specify what percentage
            of excess processing time should be made available to
            users running with the -backgnd- TUTOR command in effect.
            The remainder of the processing time, if any, will be
            made available for batch jobs.
 
            The value of "bgpct" must be an integer greater than 0
            but less than 100.  The greater the value of "bgpct"
            the more excess processing time is given to users of
            lessons with -backgnd- commands.
 
            On systems with light batch loads, it may be best to
            give -backgnd- users priority (i.e., set "bgpct" to a
            high value) to minimize CPU idle time.
 
            Default value:  50
 
        3.2.2    Keywords: CA - CO
 
        CBLTH:  CONDENSOR source buffer length
 
            As the CONDENSOR source buffer is made larger, more EM
            is required for each CONDENSOR, but less disk activity
            is required since more blocks of the source file can be
            read into the buffer with a single disk access.
 
            The value of "cblth" must be a positive integer less
            than or equal to 21 and is in units of the TUTOR block
            length.
 
            Default value:
                 3 for systems with less than 1000K of EM
                21 for systems with 1000K or more of EM
 
 
        CDISK:  CONDENSOR overlays on disk
 
                                                 page   16
 
 
 
 
            If the value of "cdisk" is ON, the main CONDENSOR
            overlays (PLATO Author Language, each level of the
            Micro PLATO Language and Central Micro PLATO) are
            loaded from disk rather than from EM.  This will save
            a large amount of EM, but condense times for Micro PLATO
            lessons will be greatly increased.
 
            If the value of "cdisk" is ON, the value of the "ncond"
            keyword will be set to 1.
 
            The usual value of "cdisk" is:
                a.  ON for systems with less than 1000K of EM
                b.  OFF for systems with 1000K or more of EM
 
            Default value:  OFF
 
 
        CMP:  Central Micro PLATO availability
 
            The value of "cmp" determines the availability of the
            Central Micro PLATO (CMP) Executor.
 
            If the value of "cmp" is OFF, the CMP overlay in the
            CONDENSOR is not loaded into EM, saving memory.  If the
            value of "cdisk" is ON, there will be no savings and
            this keyword will simply make execution of CMP lessons
            impossible.
 
            The usual value of "cmp" is OFF.
 
            Default value:  OFF
 
 
        CONFR:  TERM-confer (Teleconferencing) availability
 
            The value of "confr" determines the availability of the
            Teleconferencing feature, including TERM-confer and
            lesson "s0confer".  This control is necessary for countries
            in which this feature would be in violation of laws
            governing communications.
 
            The usual value of "confr" is ON.
 
            Default value:  ON
 
        3.2.2.1    Keywords: CP - CZ
 
        CPSPD:  Central Processor speed
 
            Setting this keyword to the correct value is necessary
            to insure that lessons execute the same on all machines,
            regardless of the actual machine speed.  The following
            figures are rough estimates only.  Use lesson "s0cpspd"
            to get a more accurate estimate.  Setting the value of
            this keyword far from that recommended by this table may
            have severe impact on system performance or load capacity
 
                                                 page   17
 
 
 
            and is discouraged by Control Data.  If you experience
            any system problem while the value of the CPSPD keyword
            is set to a value far from that recommended by this table,
            before reporting the problem, reset the value to that
            recommended in the table below.  If the problem persists,
            you may then report it.
 
            The value of "cpspd" should be set as follows:
 
                Cyber 73        cpspd=1000.
 
                Cyber 171       cpspd=620.
                Cyber 172       cpspd=900.
                Cyber 173       cpspd=1500.
                Cyber 174       cpspd=1500.
                Cyber 175       cpspd=4000.
 
                Cyber 720       cpspd=900.
                Cyber 730       cpspd=1600.
 
                Cyber 810       cpspd=1400.
                Cyber 815       cpspd=1400.
                Cyber 825       cpspd=1700.
                Cyber 830       cpspd=1700.
                Cyber 835       cpspd=1700.
                Cyber 840       cpspd=3000.
                Cyber 845       cpspd=3000.
                Cyber 850       cpspd=4200.
                Cyber 855       cpspd=4200.
                Cyber 860       cpspd=5000.
                Cyber 960-11    cpspd=4800.
                Cyber 960-31    cpspd=6900.
                Cyber 990       cpspd=21600.
 
            Default value:  1400
 
 
        CSHAR:  CONDENSOR CPU sharing priority
 
            If a job of priority "cshar" or greater is in WAIT state
            (waiting for the CPU) during a condense, the condensor
            will pause (recall) periodically to let the job get some
            processing time.  Condenses will take longer.
 
            The usual value for:
                PLATO-only systems:    70b.
                Time-sharing systems:  same as the PR parameter
                        for the time-sharing (TS) service class.
 
            Default value:  70b.
 
 
        CSTAT:  CONDENSOR statistics
 
            The value of "cstat" determines the availability of an
            EM buffer for the collection of CONDENSOR statistics.
            If a buffer is available, lesson "system1" may be used
 
                                                 page   18
 
 
 
            to collect and view TUTOR command condensing statistics.
 
            The value of "cstat" is usually OFF.
 
            Default value:  OFF
 
        3.2.3    Keywords: D - E
 
        DATEF:  date format
 
            The value of "datef" controls the format of the data
            produced by the -cdate- TUTOR command.  This command is
            used in many system lessons to display the current date.
 
            The value of "datef" must be one of the integers 1,2 or 3.
            The format produced by each of these values is:
 
                a.  datef=1.    mm/dd/yy
                b.  datef=2.    dd/mm/yy
                c.  datef=3.    yy/mm/dd
 
            The usual value of "datef" depends on the local site.
 
            Default value:  1
 
 
        EDEL1:  EM deletion pass 1
 
            When a student needs EM, and there is not enough
            available, authors using more than "edel1" words of EM
            may be backed out of their current lesson.
 
            See the section on "Controlling EM deletion" for more
            information.
 
            The usual value of "edel1" is 8000.
 
            Default value:  8000
 
 
        EDEL2:  EM deletion pass 2
 
            If not enough EM is obtained after pass 1, a second pass
            is made, backing out authors using more than "edel2"
            words of EM.
 
            See the section on "Controlling EM deletion" for more
            information.
 
            To be effective, "edel2" must be less than "edel1".
 
            The usual value of "edel2" is 5500.
 
            Default value:  5500
 
 
        EDEL3:  EM deletion pass 3
 
                                                 page   19
 
 
 
 
            If enough EM is not obtained by the first two passes, a
            third pass is made backing out authors using more than
            "edel3" words of EM.  No more passes are made, even if
            pass 3 is not successful.
 
            See the section on "Controlling EM deletion" for more
            information.
 
            To be effective, "edel3" must be less than "edel2".  The
            minimum allowable value is 1500.
 
            The usual value of "edel3" is 3000.
 
            Default value:  3000
 
 
        EMGR1:  maximum short EM request
 
            See the section on "EM Manager parameters" for more
            information.
 
            The usual value of "emgr1" is 2000.
 
            Default value:  2000
 
 
        EMGR2:  minimum EM free for long request
 
            See the section on "EM Manager parameters" for more
            information.
 
            The usual value of "emgr2" is 10000.
 
            Default value:  10000
 
 
        EMGR3:  EM available scan threshold
 
            See the section on "EM Manager parameters" for more
            information.
 
            Default value:
                40000 for systems with less than 1000K of EM
                80000 for systems with 1000K or more of EM
 
 
        EMGR4:  normal free EM desired
 
            See the section on "EM Manager parameters" for more
            information.
 
            Default value:
                30000 for systems with less than 1000K of EM
                50000 for systems with 1000K or more of EM
 
 
 
                                                 page   20
 
 
 
        ESTAT:  execution statistics
 
            The value of "estat" determines the availability of an
            EM buffer for the collection of execution statistics.
            If a buffer is available, lesson "system1" may be used
            to collect and view TUTOR command execution statistics.
 
            The value of "estat" is usually OFF.
 
            Default value:  OFF
 
        3.2.4    Keywords: F
 
        FAMLY:  NOS family name
 
            The value of "famly" is the NOS family to be used by the
            PLATO application load procedures and submitted jobs.
            Any user-submitted jobs will use this family unless it
            is overridden by a family name stored in the user's signon
            record.  More information regarding NOS families may be
            found in the NOS Analysis Handbook.
 
            The value of "famly" must be a one to seven character
            alphanumeric string.  If the form "famly=." is used,
            the default NOS family will be used.
 
            Default value:  default NOS family
 
 
        FASTL:  fast output buffer length
 
            The value of "fastl" determines the size of the FRAMAT
            fast output buffer, which contains output with the
            highest priority.  Very short output strings such as key
            echoes are kept in this buffer.
 
            The system will issue a dayfile message when this buffer
            is too short so that it may be lengthened.  If this buffer
            length must be increased much beyond the usual range, it
            may indicate that a terminal is sending in too many keys.
 
            Default value:
                 500 for systems with less than 750K of EM
                1000 for systems with 750K to 1500K of EM
                2000 for systems with more than 1500K of EM
 
 
        FLX:  extended memory field length (FL)
 
            The value of "flx" determines the amount of extended
            memory to be reserved for the PLATO application.  The
            actual EM FL is set to (value of "flx") * 1000b.
 
            If the value of "flx" is set to 0, all available
            contiguous EM beginnning at "rax" will be reserved.
 
            If you wish to segment EM between PLATO and other
 
                                                 page   21
 
 
 
            applications, setting "flx" will limit PLATO to that
            amount of EM, leaving the rest free.  Typical values:
 
                                ECS-1     ECS-2/ESM/UEM
 
                500K system     1730b         2000b
                750K system     2760b         3000b
                1000K system    3660b         4000b
                1500K system    5610b         6000b
                2000K system    7540b        10000b
 
            In general, the method to determine "flx" is to subtract
            "rax" from the extended memory field lengths shown above.
            For example, if you have 750K of UEM and set "rax" to 30b,
            then "flx" should be set to 3000b - 30b or 2750b.
 
            Default value:  0
 
 
        FOFRL:  formatter-to-framer buffer lengths
 
            The value of "fofrl" determines the lengths of two buffers
            holding formatted terminal output before it is "framed"
            (packaged for and sent to a particular network driver).
            One buffer is used for short bursts of output, such as key
            echoes.  The other is for lengthier transmissions.
 
            This is the buffer referred to by the "wxcb overflow"
            dayfile message.  Increasing the value of this keyword
            will reduce the frequency of this problem.
 
            Default value:  4000
 
 
        FORML:  slow output buffer length
 
            The value of "forml" determines the length of the FRAMAT
            slow output buffer, which contains output with the lowest
            priority.  Medium to long output strings are kept in this
            buffer.
 
            The system will issue a dayfile message when this buffer
            is too short so that it may be lengthened.  If this buffer
            length must be increased much beyond the usual range, it
            may indicate that a terminal is sending in too many keys.
 
            Default value:
                 960 for systems with less than 750K of EM
                1920 for systems with 750K to 1500K of EM
                2400 for systems with 1500K or more of EM
 
        3.2.5    Keywords: G - M
 
        INSTL:  installation mode
 
            The value of "instl" determines the operating mode of
            the PLATO application, either installation mode or
 
                                                 page   22
 
 
 
            normal mode.  Under installation mode, only certain
            system groups are allowed to sign in.
 
            The value of "instl" must be either 0 for normal operation
            or 1 for installation mode.
 
            The usual value of "instl" is 0.  During PLATO application
            installation, it is set to 1 whenever the PLATO application
            is loaded via the "PLAUPD." or "PLAINS." DSD-commands.
 
            Default value:  0
 
 
        JBNKS:  auto-break judge buffers
 
            The value of "jbnks" determines the number of buffers
            to be defined for the system to store information used
            for judging student responses when the user must auto-
            break at the end of a time-slice.
 
            The value of "jbnks" must be a postive integer exactly
            zero or greater than 4 but less than or equal to 48.
 
            The usual value of "jbnks" is determined by the number
            of users of the PLATO application.  There should be one
            buffer defined for every 16 users signed on at once.
            If the value of "jbnks" is set to 0, the system will
            change it to: (value of "users")/16 + 4.
 
            Default value:  0
 
 
        LESNS:  lesson buffer entries
 
            The value of "lesns" determines the number of entries
            which can be made in the EM lesson buffer.  These entries
            are the executable binaries of lessons, storage, commons
            and other subfiles, router variables, local variables,
            student banks, etc.
 
            Default value:
                 500 for systems with less than 750K of EM
                1000 for systems with 750K to 1500K of EM
                2000 for systems with more than 1500K of EM
 
 
        MCOND:  minimum number of CONDENSORs
 
            The value of "mcond" determines the minimum number of
            CONDENSORs which will be left at control points when
            the condense queue is lower than the minimum at which
            the PLATO application will load additional CONDENSORs.
            This is most useful in multi-mainframe systems and
            systems which are dedicated to running PLATO with a
            large number of courseware authors where there is a
            demand for faster response to condense requests.
 
 
                                                 page   23
 
 
 
            This keyword has no effect if "ncond" is set to 1.
 
            The usual value for "mcond" is 1.
 
            Default value:  1
 
        3.2.6    Keywords: NA - NB
 
        NACNT:  highest PLATO account number
 
            The value of "nacnt" determines the largest integer
            which may be assigned as an account number to any PLATO
            account in your system.  Note that this is NOT the same
            as the number of accounts existing on the system since
            there may be account numbers which are not currently
            assigned to an account.  However, "nacnt" does determine
            the maximum number of accounts which may be created.
 
            The value of "nacnt" must be less than or equal to 500.
 
            There is no usual value for "nacnt" since it depends on
            the policies of the local site.
 
            Default value:  200
 
 
        NALOG:  number of account file management logs
 
            The value of "nalog" determines the number of account
            file management logs ("acclog0", "acclog1", etc.), on
            the system.
 
            Contact PLATO Support before changing this value.
 
            The usual value of "nalog" is 4.
 
            Default value:  4
 
 
        NAM:  PLATO-NAM Interface (PNI) availability
 
            The value of "nam" is set to the number of copies of
            NAM and PNI running on a system when the ASCII network
            is in use for PLATO.
 
            On single mainframe systems, the value of "nam" can be
            the integers 0 or 1.
 
            On systems which use the ASCII network for PLATO, the
            value of "nam" must be 1.
 
            Default value:  1
 
 
        NAMPD:  PLATO drop time
 
            The value of "nampd" is the time in seconds between
 
                                                 page   24
 
 
 
            the time the last user of PLATO through the ASCII
            network signs out and the time PNI drops the PLATO
            application.  This can be used to release the CM in
            use by the PLATO application when it is not being
            used.
 
            If the value of "nampd" is set to 0, PNI will never drop
            PLATO.  If the site wishes PLATO to load and drop as
            users sign on and off, a non-zero value should be used.
            Normally, it takes the PLATO application two minutes to
            initialize, so a site should not specify this value
            such that the application drops too soon.  A suggested
            value might be 2 minutes (120 seconds), but it is highly
            dependent on the user sign-on activity at the site.
 
            This keyword should never be used on systems which use
            both the ASCII and CIU networks.
 
            Default value:  0
 
 
        NAMTO:  PNI log-out timeout
 
            The value of "namto" determines the length of time between
            the time a user presses SHIFT-STOP to return to the "Press
            NEXT to Begin" display and the time the user is logged
            out of NAM.
 
            PNI checks for this timeout only once every 30 seconds,
            so any number specified may actually have a range of
            plus or minus 30 seconds.
 
            If the value of "namto" is set to 0, PNI will immediately
            log out a user when SHIFT-STOP is pressed to return to
            the "Press NEXT to Begin" display.
 
            There is no usual value for "namto" since it depends on
            the policies of the local site.
 
            Default value:  120
 
        3.2.6.1    Keywords: NC - NM
 
        NCMB:  number of PMS CM buffers
 
            The value of "ncmb" determines the number of CM paths for
            disk-to-EM transfers when the PMS low-speed port/DDP is
            busy or not defined in the NOS EQPDECK.
 
            The value of "ncmb" must be an integer greater than or
            equal to 0 but less than or equal to "npms".
 
            Systems on 800-series mainframes must set this value to
            0 or use the default value.
 
            Systems on 700-series mainframes with a "D1" equipment
            defined in the EQPDECK should set "ncmb" to "npms"-1.
 
                                                 page   25
 
 
 
 
            Systems on 700-series mainframes with no "D1" equipment
            defined in the EQPDECK should set "ncmb" equal to "npms".
 
            See the section on "Settng up your disk system" for more
            information.
 
            Default value:  0
 
 
        NCOND:  number of CONDENSORs
 
            The value of "ncond" determines the maximum number of
            CONDENSORs which are allowed to run.  If more than one
            CONDENSOR is allowed, additional ones will be started
            automatically when the condense queue builds up.  The
            additional CONDENSORs will be dropped when the condense
            queue goes below the threshold where additional CONDENSORs
            are loaded unless the "mcond" keyword is used to allow
            the additional CONDENSORs to remain running.
 
            The value of "ncond" must be an integer greater than 0
            but less than or equal to 3.  This keyword has no effect
            if the value of "cdisk" is ON.  In this case, the system
            will support only one CONDENSOR.
 
            The usual value of "ncond" is 1.
 
            Default value:  1
 
 
        NDSUS:  maximum number of master files
 
            The value of "ndsus" determines the maximum number of
            PLATO master files which may be attached at one time.
 
            The value of "ndsus" must be a positive integer less
            than 116.
 
            There is no usual value for "ndsus" since it is dependent
            on the amount of disk space desired for the local site.
 
            Default value:  12
 
 
        NETMS:  network system table size
 
            The value of "netms" determines the length of the network
            system table contained in common "link" of file "sysfile".
            This common must be at least (1 + 10 * "netms") words long.
            See the "Network Management" section for more information
            before changing the value of this keyword.
 
            The value of "netms" should be set to the number of systems
            in the network for which an "authors" database or a PLATO
            inter-system link exists.
 
 
                                                 page   26
 
 
 
            There is no usual value for "netms" since it is dependent
            on the local site's network configuration.
 
            Default value:  10
 
 
        NIOB:  number of subfile I/O buffers
 
            The value of "niob" determines the number of "subfile
            I/O buffers" which are used when reading commons, charsets,
            linesets, microtables, access lists, dataset records,
            nameset records or TUTOR file blocks from disk.
 
            The usual value of "niob" is:
                a.  4 for systems with less than 64 users
                b.  8 for systems with 64 - 127 users
                c.  12 for systems with 128 - 255 users
                d.  16 for systems with more than 255 users
 
            When the value of "niob" is set to zero, the system will
            automatically set it to the usual values given above.
 
            Default value:  0
 
 
        NJOB:  number of PLATO batch jobs
 
            The value of "njob" determines the maximum number of
            jobs submitted through PLATO which can be running at
            the same time.  This includes the PLATO system control
            points.
 
            The usual value of "njob" is 64.
 
            Default value:  64
 
        3.2.6.2    Keywords:  NN - NR
 
        NN1SI:  number of NAM (PNI) sites
 
            The value of "nn1si" determines the number of PLATO sites
            (groups of 32 terminals) for use with the ASCII network.
 
            The value of "nn1si" must be an integer greater than or
            equal to 0 but less than or equal to "nsite".
 
            There is no usual value for "nn1si" since it is dependent
            on the number of users on the system at the same time.
 
            Default value:  2
 
 
        NPARC:  number of output parcels
 
            The value of "nparc" determines the number of buffers
            of formatted output which are waiting to be sent to the
            network.
 
                                                 page   27
 
 
 
 
            Default value:
                 500 for systems with less than 750K of EM
                 750 for systems with 750K - 1500K of EM
                1000 for systems with more than 1500K of EM
 
 
        NPMS:  number of copies of PMS
 
            The value of "npms" determines the number of copies of
            the PLATO disk driver PP, PMS, to be run.  Using more
            than one copy of PMS will improve disk performance, but
            keep in mind that each additional copy requires another
            dedicated PP while the application is active.  The number
            of disk channels available and the disk drive configuration
            on the available channels will also affect the number of
            PPs which will optimize performance.  See the section on
            "Setting up your disk system" for more information.
 
            The value of "npms" must be 1, 2, or 4.
 
            The usual value for "npms" is 1.
 
            Default value:  1
 
 
        NRUNR:  number of runner stations
 
            The value of "nrunr" determines the maximum number of
            runner programs which may be running at the same time.
            See the PLATO Operations Guide for more information on
            runner programs.
 
            The value of "nrunr" must be at least 3 greater than the
            number of runners which must be active continuously
            throughout the day.  Each additional runner station will
            cost about 500 words of EM.  Changing this value will
            affect the station numbers which runner stations occupy
            and could affect the logical site assignments of these
            and other stations.  See the PLATO Operations Guide and
            the "EM management" section of this Handbook for more
            information on logical sites.
 
            The usual value of "nrunr" is 10, but the local site may
            add more runner stations at their option.
 
            Default value:  10
 
        3.2.6.3    Keywords: NS - NZ
 
        NSITE:  number of physical sites
 
            The value of "nsite" determines the total number of PLATO
            sites (groups of 32 terminals) in the network.
 
            The value of "nsite" should be one greater than the total
            number of sites which will be used by real users since
 
                                                 page   28
 
 
 
            runner programs occupy the highest site.
 
            On most systems, where the ASCII (PNI) network is the
            only communications network in use, "nsite" should be
            set to one greater than "nn1si".
 
            There is no usual value for "nsite" since it is dependent
            on the number of users on the system at the same time.
 
            Default value:  3
 
 
        N1SIT:  first NAM (PNI) site
 
            The value of "n1sit" determines the number of the first
            PLATO site (group of 32 terminals) assigned to the ASCII
            network.
 
            On most systems, where the ASCII (PNI) network is the
            only communications network in use, "n1sit" should be
            set to 0.
 
            Default value:  0
 
        3.2.7    Keywords: O - Q
 
        PASSW:  password required for system lessons
 
            The value of "passw" determines if NOS user name passwords
            are to be required in jobs submitted by system lessons.
 
            If the value of "passw" is OFF, system lessons may
            use the -submitm- and -submitx- commands without specifying
            a password for the NOS user name to be used.
 
            Default value:  OFF
 
 
        PRTUN:  NOS user number for print jobs
 
            The value of "prtun" specifies the NOS user number to be
            used when submitting central system print requests through
            lesson "prints".
 
            The value of "prtun" must be a one- to seven-character
            alphanumeric string which is a legal NOS user name.
            The user index for this user name must be less than
            377770b.
 
            The usual value of "prtun" is "prints".
 
            Default value:  "prints"
 
 
        PTLIM:  password time limit
 
            The value of "ptlim" determines the number of days
 
                                                 page   29
 
 
 
            until a user is prompted to change their PLATO signon
            password when they attempt to sign on.
 
            There is no usual value for "ptlim" since it is dependent
            on local site policies.
 
            Default value:  60
 
 
        PWBOT:  attempts at password before booting
 
            The value of "pwbot" determines how many consecutive
            unsuccessful attempts at a PLATO signon password will
            be allowed before the user is required to re-enter the
            signon name and group.  All attempts after this limit
            is reached returns the user to the "Press NEXT to begin"
            display.
 
            Default value:  5
 
 
        PWNOT:  attempts at password before note
 
            The value of "pwnot" determines when and how often a
            "security breech" note will be written to file "s0sysmsg".
            Every attempt that is an even multiple of "pwnot" will
            generate a note.
 
            Default value:  25
 
 
        PWOFF:  attempts at password before signon turned off
 
            The value of "pwoff" is the number of consecutive
            unsuccessful attempts at a PLATO signon password before
            the signon is turned off for security reasons.
 
            The default value has been chosen as low enough to prevent
            guessing a user's password, but high enough to prevent
            someone from turning off a user's record by deliberately
            guessing the user's password incorrectly.
 
            Default value:  1000
 
 
        QUESZ:  backgnd, auto-break queue size
 
            The value of "quesz" determines the length of various
            queues used by the PLATO executor, such as the queue
            of users waiting for -backgnd- execution time or of users
            waiting for another time-slice.
 
            The value of "quesz" must be an integral power of 2.
 
            The usual value of "quesz" is:
                a.  64 for systems with less than 64 users
                b.  128 for systems with 64 - 127 users
 
                                                 page   30
 
 
 
                c.  256 for systems with 128 - 255 users
                d.  512 for systems with more than 255 users
 
            When the value of "quesz" is set to zero, the system will
            automatically set it to the usual values given above.
 
            Default value:  0
 
        3.2.8    Keywords: R
 
        RAX:  extended memory reference address (RA)
 
            The value of "rax" determines the PLATO application
            extended memory reference address.  The actual EM RA is
            set to (value of "rax") * 1000b.
 
            If the value of "rax" is set to 0, the value of "rax"
            used will be automatically determined by the system.
 
            If a value is specified, MASTOR will first request the
            "track" on the NOS EM device which contains that address.
            If that track is not available, it will attempt higher-
            numbered tracks until it finds enough contiguous tracks
            to satisfy the requested amount ("flx").
 
            The actual RAX/FLX values are also a factor of extended
            memory type & size.  NOS allocates EM as a file, which
            MASTOR uses as directly addressable memory.  Differences
            in units of allocation force some rounding to be done.
            For this reason, the actual numbers may not be exactly
            what was requested.
 
            Default value:  0
 
 
        RID:  routing identifier
 
            The value of "rid" specifies a system identifier which is
            used by features such as lesson "authors" and the PLATO
            inter-system link.
 
            The value of "rid" is a three-character alphanumeric
            string established for each system by Control Data at
            installation time.  You must use this pre-determined
            value and must not change it once it has been set.
            The value of "rid" must be unique across all PLATO
            systems.  Changing the value of "rid" after installation
            can cause features to work incorrectly.
 
            Default value:  0
 
        3.2.9    Keywords: S
 
        SECUR:  application security level
 
            The value of "secur" determines the availability of
            features which can be used to inspect central memory
 
                                                 page   31
 
 
 
            and extended memory of running jobs.
 
            The value of "secur" is either ON or OFF depending on
            the desired security level.  When the value of "secur"
            is ON, system lessons are prevented from accessing NOS
            information.  For example, no console displays may be
            seen via lesson "console".
 
            The usual value of "secur" is OFF.
 
            Default value:  OFF
 
 
        SID:  system identifier
 
            The value of "sid" specifies the name of the PLATO system
            for display purposes.  It is used in features such as the
            "zsystem" reserved word, lesson "authors", the signon
            display and the PLATO inter-system link.
 
            The value of "sid" must be a one- to seven-character
            alphanumeric string.
 
            Default value:  "cdc"
 
 
        SUBUN:  submit user name
 
            The value of "subun" specifies the NOS user name to be
            used to submit the PLATO load procedures.
 
            The value of "subun" must be a one- to seven-character
            alphanumeric string which is a legal NOS user name.  The
            submit file PLATOD must be in the permanent file catalog
            of this user name.  The user index for this user name
            must be less than 377770b.
 
            The usual value of "subun" is "sys".
 
            Default value:  "sys"
 
 
        SYOT:  system origin permission
 
            The value of "syot" determines who can submit system
            origin jobs from a PLATO application terminal.
 
            The value of "syot" must be one of the following.
 
                0 = No system origin jobs may be submitted except
                    jobs used to load PLATO control points.
 
                1 = System origin jobs may be submitted by any
                    system lesson.
 
                2 = System origin jobs may be submitted by any
                    system lesson or any user validated for it
 
                                                 page   32
 
 
 
                    (CSOJ bit set in NOS validation file for the
                    user name to be used for the submit).
 
            The value of "syot" must be greater than 0 on single
            mainframe systems so that utilities such as "ldr" will
            work correctly.
 
 
        SYSAC:  system user access
 
            The value of "sysac" determines if remote system-level
            users are allowed access to the PLATO system.
 
            The value of "sysac" is either ON or OFF, depending on
            whether groups "s" and "coserv" will be allowed to sign
            on to the system.  These groups are owned by Control
            Data and are used to perform system software and course-
            ware maintenance.
 
            The usual value of "sysac" is ON.
 
 
        SYSDL:  system lesson deletion
 
            The value of "sysdl" determines if the system may back
            authors out of specific system lessons to obtain memory
            for students.
 
            The value of "sysdl" is ON if the system is allowed to
            back authors out of system lessons.  Author deletion
            must also be enabled in lesson "site".  It is recommended
            that this keyword be used only on systems which have a
            high student usage and very little development work by
            authors.  Use of this feature can cause work being done
            by authors to be lost when they are backed out.
 
            See the section on "Controlling EM deletion" for more
            information.
 
            The usual value of "sysdl" is OFF.
 
            Default value:  OFF
 
        3.2.10    Keywords: T - Z
 
        TIMEF:  time format
 
            The value of "timef" controls the format of the data
            produced by the -ctime- TUTOR command.  This command is
            used in many system lessons to display the current time.
 
            The value of "timef" must be one of the integers 12 or 24.
            The format produced by each of these values is:
 
                a.  timef=12.   display time in 12 hour format
                b.  timef=24.   display time in 24 hour format
 
 
                                                 page   33
 
 
 
            The usual value of "timef" depends on the local site.
 
            Default value:  12
 
 
        USERS:  maximum number of users
 
            The value of "users" determines the maximum number of
            users who may be signed on at the same time.
 
            If the value of "users" is set to 0, the system will
            change this to 32 * (value of "nsite").  Sites may
            want to reduce this number to save memory since not all
            terminals will be signed in at the same time.
 
            There is no usual value for "users" since it is dependent
            on local system needs.
 
            Default value:  0
 
                                                 page   34
 
 
 
 
        4    System Lesson Parameters
 
        Most system lesson configuration parameters are controlled
        via lesson "ipedit".  The following is a list of parameters
        which may be changed through options in this lesson.
 
        Prime-Time table
            This table defines the value of the "ptime" reserved
            word.  It is intended to show the hours when the system
            is fully operational as scheduled.
 
        Services-available time table
            This table determines when the system is fully staffed
            and operators and consultants are available.  Outside
            of these hours, a message will appear on the signon
            display stating that services personnel are unavailable.
 
        Time zone
            This option allows changing the time zone identifier
            which appears along with the current time in several
            system displays.
 
        Archive recycle period
            This option is used to change the length of time an
            archive file may exist.
 
        "Welcome to PLATO" message
            This option allows changing a message line on the signon
            display.
 
        PNET "Lock Out" message
            The option is used to edit the message a user sees when
            not allowed to sign on if the terminal he is using is
            not defined in the network database.  This will only
            appear if the "pnet" configuration file keyword has the
            value ON.
 
        Required Master Files table
            This option allows editing the list of master files which
            should always be attached when the PLATO application is
            running.  If one or of these master files is missing,
            users will be prevented from creating new files.
 
        Operator's station
            This option allows setting the station number to which
            TERM-operator requests are first directed if an operator
            is signed in at this station.  If there is no operator
            signed in at this station, the request will be directed
            to operators at other stations.
 
        Special station list
            This option allows editing the list of stations where
            special system functions can be performed by consultants
            and system software maintenance groups.  The major feature
            allowed is the ability to inspect files when the password
            is not known.
 
                                                 page   35
 
 
 
 
        Restrict system personnel access
            This option allows changing the value of the "sysac"
            configuration file keyword while PLATO is running to
            temporarily allow system groups to sign on.
 
        Edit/inspect system lesson access lists
            This option jumps to lesson "s0calutil" to allow editing
            access lists to control user access to restricted system
            features.
 
        Batch submission control
            This option is used to control who may submit batch jobs
            and to edit a list of mainframes which can be used.
 
        Continuous polling
            This option allows changing the recall characteristics
            of the PLATO application which can result in more CPU
            time being available for batch jobs.  This option has
            a HELP sequence which explains this control.
 
        Network management
            This option is the network system table editor.  It is
            used to edit the list of systems and their characteristics.
 
        4.1
 
        Preferred language table
            This option allows setting the language some system
            displays such as the signon display and the Author Mode
            display will use.  The only choices are English and
            French for these displays, but the "zlang" reserved word
            is available to user lessons to determine what language
            is desired.
 
        Update level for new files
            This option is an editor for the list of possible PLATO
            file types and their "update levels".  New files which
            are created will have their update levels set to the
            value which appears in this table for the specific file
            type.  When one of these values changes, you will be
            instructed to change the update level value during the
            upgrade installation.  See the section on "File Conversions"
            in the PLATO Operations Guide for more information.
 
        Multi-CONDENSOR submission
            This option is used to determine which mainframes in
            a multi-mainframe configuration CONDENSORs will be
            submitted to when additional ones are required.
 
        Change length of terminal location list
            This option is used to lengthen the terminal location
            list which can be viewed in lesson "system1" when new
            logical sites are added to the system.
 
        Change length of EM allocation tables
            This option can be used to lengthen the EM allocation
 
                                                 page   36
 
 
 
            tables when new sites are added to the system.
 
                                                 page   37
 
 
 
 
        5    EM Management
 
        This section describes the management of the EM which has
        been allocated to the PLATO application.  This information
        concerns memory usage within the PLATO system itself, not
        how it affects the operating system.
 
        5.1    The Lesson Buffer
 
        Depending on the system configuration, a set amount of
        EM is reserved for overhead.  This overhead represents
        the "binaries" for the various overlays as well as the
        many tables and buffers used by the application.  Some of
        the overhead is of fixed size, but other parts of it will
        vary considerably in size, depending on the configuration
        of the system (i.e., number of sites, master files, etc).
 
        What remains, after subtracting the overhead from the EM
        size, is the lesson buffer.  The lesson buffer will contain
        all lessons, commons, storage, etc., which are in use.
        Once an entity is no longer in use, the "ECS manager" will
        periodically be activated and remove that entity from EM to
        make room for something else.  If a user tries to use more
        EM when there is no more available, problems will arise.  It
        is for this reason that EM must be allocated in an attempt
        to control the number of such problems, and to whom these
        problems will occur.
 
        5.2    Logical Sites
 
        A "logical site" is a collection of terminals which may or
        may not be located together.  They are related in two ways:
 
            (1) use of the terminals is controlled by the application
                in accordance with a set of rules for that logical
                site.
 
            (2) all of the users of that logical site share (compete)
                for) the computer memory (EM) allocated for the
                exclusive use of that site.
 
        Logical sites are created and EM is allocated through lesson
        "allocate".
 
        5.3    Allocateable EM
 
        Not all of the lesson buffer may be allocated to the users.
        Some of it is reserved to contain student banks for each
        terminal signed in as well as for some of the system
        lessons.  Most system lessons are in EM only when someone
        is using them (just as any normal lesson).  However, a few
        of them (lessons "edit" and "sysopts", for example) always
        remain in EM regardless of whether or not someone is actually
        using them.  Thus, you should not allocate EM represented
        by this lesson buffer overhead.
 
 
                                                 page   38
 
 
 
        Furthermore, when users in other system lessons are not
        charged for the full length of the lesson, a certain amount
        of the buffer must be reserved for this uncharged EM.
 
        The result of all this is when allocating EM, the entire
        EM buffer must not be allocated to the logical sites.  A
        guideline which has worked well for most systems is to leave
        about 20% of the lesson buffer unallocated.
 
        5.3.1    How Much to Allocate
 
        There is no answer for how much EM can be safely allocated
        without causing problems for a fixed number of users.  Here
        are two methods to give an estimate as to how much to allocate.
        Start the allocation with this amount and adjust to conform
        to actual need.
 
            1. Use lesson "s0config" to determine the size of the
               lesson buffer for your configuration and do not
               allocate 20% of the length given.
 
            2. In the "EM management statistics" option in lesson
               "system1", there is an option entitled "Lesson length/
               type distribution" which provides the following:
 
                 a.  the size of the lesson buffer
                 b.  the distribution of files by type throughout
                     the lesson buffer
                 c.  the amount of lesson buffer overhead
                 d.  an estimate as to how much of the lesson buffer
                     may be allocated
 
               In order for the estimate to be valid, run the option
               when the application is running at a peak load.
 
        5.3.2    Adjusting the Allocations
 
        Once EM has been allocated, there are several statistics
        which may be used to determine how well the allocation
        scheme is working, and adjustments should be made
        accordingly.
 
            a.  In lesson "stats", option b, you can see the EM free
                at 15 minute intervals during the day.  If the EM free
                approaches zero, you are out of EM.  This means the
                total amount of EM is about right; no more should be
                allocated.
 
            b.  In the "EM management statistics" section of lesson
                "system1", you can see the number of times users were
                totally unable to obtain requested EM.  If this number
                is non-zero, there are times when the entire lesson buf-
                fer was full and someone tried to get additional EM.
                In such a case, the user would get a message such as "No
                EM available".  A few of these each day is no problem,
                but if the number gets too big, the entire system will
                be affected.  In such a case, you MUST lower the EM
 
                                                 page   39
 
 
 
                allocated to one or more logical sites via lesson
                "allocate".
 
            c.  If you or other users receive messages like "You have
                exceeded your EM allocation", this means your site
                does not have enough EM allocated for all of its
                desired uses.  You may allocate more to this site if
                other statistics have indicated that more EM may be
                available.
 
            d.  When a site is using all of its allocated EM and a
                student tries to get more, an author may be deleted to
                make room for the student, if this option is turned on
                in lesson "site".  These deletions are recorded and may
                be seen in a PLATO Availability Report (RAFPDD).  You
                may decrease the number of deletions by increasing the
                EM allocated to the site.  However, if no more EM is
                available to allocate, you may have to accept these
                deletions.
 
        5.3.3    Actions to Correct Memory Shortages
 
        If statistics or messages indicate that there are problems,
        action should be taken, if possible.
 
            a.  Reduction of EM allocated to sites should only be
                necessary if there are several times when users are
                totally unable to obtain requested EM.  In such a case,
                reduce the total amount of allocated EM.
 
            b.  Allocate more EM to the logical sites if there are
                problems and statistics indicate more EM is available.
 
            c.  If more than one non-system logical site exists, it
                may be possible to move EM from one site to another.
 
            d.  Change the system configuration file to reduce overhead.
 
            e.  Make sure that only essential runners are running during
                the peak hours of the day.
 
            f.  Use lesson "enforcer" to disable certain lessons during
                peak times of the day.  Be warned, however, that the
                enforcer requires EM and may add to the shortage.
 
            g.  If management prefers to protect one group of users
                at the expense of another, set up a separate site for
                each group.  Allocate more EM to the "protected" group
                than to the "unprotected" group.
 
            h.  Watch for users designing extremely large lessons and
                try to help them to make them smaller.  Encourage
                authors working on lessons to condense only those
                blocks they are currently working on.
 
            i.  Obtaining more EM may be the only alternative.
 
 
                                                 page   40
 
 
 
        5.3.4    Controlling EM Deletions
 
        This section describes the algorithm used to back authors
        out of lessons when a student requests memory and there is
        not enough available in the student's logical site memory
        allocation.  It also shows how to use the "edel1", "edel2",
        "edel3" and "sysdl" configuration file keywords to change
        the parameters of this algorithm.
 
            if author deletion not allowed for this logical site
              through option in lesson "site", then exit (failure).
 
            set BASE_AUTHOR_EM = 1500.
            set EM_NEEDED = REQUEST + 5000.
            set EM_OBTAINED = 0.
 
            loop
                if first pass, then set LIMIT = "edel1", else
                    if second pass, then set LIMIT = "edel2", else
                        if third pass, then set LIMIT = "edel3", else
                          exit (failure).
 
                loop
                    get next author to check.
                    set EM_IN_USE = length of (lesson + common + storage).
                    if EM_IN_USE less than LIMIT, then reloop.
                    set EM_AVAILABLE = EM_IN_USE - BASE_AUTHOR_EM.
                    if protected system lesson, then
                        if always protected, then reloop, else
                            if "sysdl" equals OFF, then reloop.
                    if lesson also in use by students at site, then
                      reloop.
                    if lesson in use by more than 3 users, then reloop.
                    back out author.
                    issue NOS account file message (PD entry).
                    set EM_OBTAINED = EM_OBTAINED + EM_AVAILABLE.
                    if EM_OBTAINED greater than or equal to EM_NEEDED, then
                      exit (successful).
                endloop
 
            endloop
 
        5.4    EM Manager Parameters
 
        This section describes the usage of the "emgr1", "emgr2",
        "emgr3" and "emgr4" configuration file entries and how
        changing these values will affect the PLATO system.  Extreme
        care must be taken if you decide to change these parameters
        since drastic changes can severly affect the performance of
        the PLATO application and any other jobs running in the
        system.
 
        The "EM Manager" is a program called periodically by the
        PLATO system to maintain free space in the lesson buffer.
        It does this in three phases:
 
            1. by maintaining two different pointers to areas of
 
                                                 page   41
 
 
 
               free space in the lesson buffer (Search Phase).
 
            2. by deleting unused entries in the lesson buffer
               (Deletion Phase).
 
            3. by relocating entries in the lesson buffer to open
               up larger areas of free space (Compaction Phase).
 
        The amount of EM sought by the EM manager is set to "emgr4"
        unless a user request for EM has been refused because of
        inadequate memory.  In this case, the amount sought is set
        to the greater of 100,000 words or one-eighth of the lesson
        buffer size.  The number 100,000 is the maximum amount of
        memory which may be requested by a user.
 
        Setting "emgr4" lower than recommended values will cause the
        EM Manager to spend most of its time in the Search Phase and to
        not advance to the other phases because it will be more likely
        to find a free space of the amount sought.  This will make it
        use less CPU time, but unused lessons will not be deleted as
        often and compaction of the lesson buffer will be rare.  This
        will cause users to get more errors due to EM shortages.
 
        Setting "emgr4" higher than recommended values will cause the
        EM Manager to advance to the other phases more often and it
        will use more CPU time, reducing CPU time which could be given
        to users and to batch jobs.  When the EM Manager is using too
        much CPU time, users in lessons with -backgnd- commands will
        freeze up because the EM Manager has priority over -backgnd-
        users, and condenses will take much longer because the PLATO
        executor is using most of the available CPU time.
 
        5.4.1    Search Phase
 
        If the number of lesson buffer entries is near the maximum,
        the EM Manager immediately advances to the Deletion Phase.
        This maximum is the value of the "lesns" configuration file
        keyword.
 
        If there is more free EM available than that specified by the
        "emgr3" keyword, the EM Manager will immediately exit.
 
            Setting "emgr3" lower than recommended values will cause
            the EM Manager to search the lesson buffer less often and
            will lead to user errors due to memory shortages.
 
            Setting "emgr3" higher than recommended values will cause
            the EM Manager to search the lesson buffer more often,
            using up CPU time which could be given to PLATO users and
            batch jobs.
 
        The Search Phase searches the lesson buffer for adequate free
        EM and sets two pointers called the "short request pointer"
        and the "long request pointer".
 
        The short request pointer is used when filling requests for
        memory which are shorter than "emgr1".  It points to the last
 
                                                 page   42
 
 
 
        free area of EM smaller than "emgr4" but greater than "emgr1"
        found during the lesson buffer search.
 
            Setting "emgr1" lower than recommended values will cause
            more user memory requests to be considered as long requests,
            which take more time to process and will cause the EM
            Manager to be called more often.  This will also make the
            short request pointer less useful because the area of free
            EM it points to will be smaller and it is more likely that
            a user request will occupy the entire free area, leaving
            none for the next user short memory request.  When this
            happens, the next user must do a full search of the lesson
            buffer for a free area, which is very expensive in CPU time.
 
            Setting "emgr1" higher than recommended values will cause
            the EM Manager to ignore areas of free memory which would
            otherwise qualify to be pointed to by the short request
            pointer.  This will lead to many small areas of free EM
            appearing throughout the lesson buffer which cannot be
            used until they are collected by the Compaction Phase.
 
        The long request pointer is used when filling requests for
        memory which are greater than "emgr1".  It points to the first
        area of EM larger than the amount sought during the lesson
        buffer search.  If no area of free EM is found which is larger
        than the amount sought, the EM Manager advances to the Deletion
        Phase.
 
        5.4.2    Delete Phase
 
        The Deletion Phase searches the lesson buffer for a pre-
        determined amount of time, deleting unused entries.  It
        begins the search at the point where it left off the last
        time is was called.  If the EM Manager must exit before it
        has finished a complete search of the lesson buffer due to
        running out of time, it saves the point it reached and sets
        a flag so it will begin with the Compaction Phase when it is
        called again.
 
        If the search reaches the end of the lesson buffer before
        the time limit has been reached, the EM Manager will reset
        the short request pointer and the long request pointer.
 
        If an area of free EM larger than the amount sought could not
        be found and if there is at least 20,000 words of free EM over-
        all which could be used if it were in one large area, the EM
        Manager will advance to the Compaction Phase.  Otherwise, it
        exits.
 
        5.4.3    Compaction Phase
 
        If there less than twice the value of "emgr2" words of EM
        available throughout the lesson buffer, the EM Manager will
        return to the Deletion Phase to attempt to delete more lessons.
        This is done because the Compaction Phase is extremely expensive
        in CPU time and this amount is too small to be worth the effort
        it would take to compact it.  The value of "emgr2" is also
 
                                                 page   43
 
 
 
        used to reject user requests for large amounts of EM when
        there is less than "emgr2" words free.
 
            Setting "emgr2" lower than recommended values will allow
            users making requests for large amounts of EM to use up
            EM which should be reserved for the shorter requests.
            Priority should normally be given to users requesting
            small amounts of memory.
 
            Setting "emgr2" higher than recommended values will cause
            user requests for large amounts of EM to be rejected more
            often, which leads to the EM Manager searching for larger
            amounts of free EM more often.  Since it must advance to
            the higher Phases in order to obtain the larger amounts
            of free EM sought, it will consume more CPU time.
 
        If there is enough memory available to make the Compaction
        Phase worth the CPU time it will take, the EM Manager searches
        the lesson buffer for entries which can be moved to open up
        larger free areas of EM.  When it completes this search, it
        resets a flag so the EM Manager will return to the Search
        Phase when it is called again.
 
                                                 page   44
 
 
 
 
        6    Disk System Management
 
 
        6.1    Setting Up Your Disk System
 
        Optimization of the PLATO disk system is done by proper
        use of the following.
 
        1. Sharing use of mass storage devices between PLATO master
           files and NOS.
 
           Each copy of the PLATO disk driver (PMS) can process disk
           requests on several different mass storage devices.  The
           processing of a disk request consists of two distinct steps,
           physically moving the read/write head on the device to the
           proper position and transferring the data from the disk to
           PLATOs extended memory.  Each copy of PMS can direct the
           positioning of the read-write head on several different
           mass storage devices at the same time, but can transfer
           data from only one mass storage device at a time.
 
           The positioning process is much more time-consuming so it
           is best to avoid sharing the use of a mass storage device
           between NOS and PLATO files since this could result in
           conflicts between different PPUs wishing to position the
           device at the same time.  PMS avoids deadlock conflicts
           by dedicating itself to positioning a device which is
           shared by the NOS system instead of attempting to position
           other devices at the same time it is positioning a shared
           device.  This will slow down processing of all following
           disk requests.
 
           PMS dedicates itself to positioning a device when it has
           any of the following characteristics.
 
                  equipment not of type DD, DG, DI, DJ, DK, DL, DM, DQ
                  copy of system on device
                  device shared between mainframes
                  dayfile, errorlog, accountlog or mainlog on device
                  files other than master files attached to jobs
                  temporary, rollout or output files allowed on device
                  multi-spindle device
                  independent-shared device
 
        2. Assigning Equipment Status Table (EST) entries for mass
           storage devices which contain PLATO master files.
 
           This factor is not important for systems using only one
           copy of the PLATO disk driver.  When two copies are used,
           one PPU processes all requests for devices with even
           numbered EST entries and the other processes all requests
           for devices with odd numbered EST entries.  When four
           copies are used, the distribution of PPUs to devices is:
 
                       PPU     Last Digit of EST ordinal
                        0               0,4
 
                                                 page   45
 
 
 
                        1               1,5
                        2               2,6
                        3               3,7
 
        3. Creating PLATO master files with the MFCREAT utility.
 
           Master files should be created individually so that the
           tracks allocated to the file will be contiguous.  This will
           reduce the amount of work required in the disk system to
           find the proper track for a disk access.  If more than
           one job is creating a master file at the same time, the
           tracks allocated to each file will be randomly inter-
           mixed.  This also applies to copying master files from
           one disk or tape to another by using NOS utilities.
 
        6.1.1    Setting Up Your Disk (continued)
 
        4. Setting the "npms" PLATO configuration file entry.
 
           This parameter determines the number of copies of the
           PLATO disk driver (PMS) to be loaded when the MASTOR job
           is initialized.  This disk driver transfers data between
           the PLATO master files and PLATO's extended memory (EM)
           where it is accessed by users.  The number of copies of
           PMS must be a power of 2 (i.e., 1, 2, or 4).  Each copy of
           PMS used occupies a dedicated PPU.  PMS uses a disk channel
           when processing a disk request and, on 700-series mainframes
           only, uses a distributive-data path (DDP) port access to
           ECS or a low-speed port access to ESM or a CM-data-transfer
           path, which is defined by the "ncmb" configuration file
           entry.  PMS uses the EM port defined by the "D1" EQPDECK
           entry.  This equipment is shared with other PPU programs,
           such as MRQ and MAS.  On 800-series mainframes, PMS uses
           direct access to UEM to transfer data and does not need a
           CM-data-transfer path.
 
           The number of copies of PMS to be used depends on the
           following factors.
 
              1. Maximum number of users active on the system at
                 one time.
 
              2. Number of disk controllers and disk channels
                 configured for the system.
 
              3. Number of DDPs, ESM low-speed ports or CM-data-
                 transfer paths configured for the system.
 
        5. Setting the "ncmb" PLATO configuration file entry.
 
           This configuration file entry determines the number of
           CM-data-transfer paths available for use by PMS when a
           DDP access to ECS or a low-speed port access to ESM is
           not available (either none are defined for the system, or
           all are reserved by other PPs).  Users of 800-series machines
           must set this parameter to zero or omit it from the config-
           uration file.  For 700-series machines, this parameter
 
                                                 page   46
 
 
 
           should never be set higher than the "npms" configuration
           file entry since this would just waste CM and not improve
           performance.  A general guideline to follow is that "ncmb"
           should be set to "npms" minus the number of DDP or low-
           speed ports available for use by PMS.  In practice, if CM
           is short on a lightly-loaded system, this parameter may be
           set lower since the copies of PMS are very unlikely to all
           need a CM data transfer path at the same time.
 
        6.2    User File Space Management
 
 
        6.2.1    File Space Monitoring
 
        File space should be monitored on a regular basis.  The
        amount of space in use and that still available may be
        seen by looking at the options in lesson "operator".  While
        looking at "operator", there are 3 things that should be
        looked for:
 
            1.  If another master file is necessary, because the
                current ones are almost used up.
 
            2.  If another master file slot needs to be added.  For
                a smooth production environment, there must always
                be one slot for each required master file, plus one
                additional master file slot for special operations
                (e.g., loading a backup master file to get a backup
                copy of a lesson).  To add another slot, simply change
                the value of the "ndsus" keyword in the configuration
                file.
 
            3.  If another disk unit is necessary.  The initiative
                for obtaining an additional disk unit should be
                started well in advance of its actual need.  When
                you start to use the last unit, it is time to think
                about getting the next unit.
 
        6.2.2    Adding a Required Master File
 
        The following steps must be followed whenever a new required
        master file is added.
 
            a.  Change EQPDECKs if a new disk is to be added.
 
            b.  Create the master file with MFCREAT.
 
            c.  Change procedure MFNX on the deadstart tape.  Both
                the RESOURC and ATTACH commands may have to be
                changed.
 
            d.  You may need to increase the value of the "ndsus"
                keyword in your PLATO configuration file.
 
            e.  Make changes to dump and load procedures so that
                the new master file will be properly dumped.  This
                includes changing MFDX and the master files to be
 
                                                 page   47
 
 
 
                dumped table through BACKMOD.
 
            f.  Build a new deadstart file with the modified copies
                of the EQPDECKs, MFNX, MFDX and your configuration
                file.
 
            g.  Reload the operating system on the new deadstart file.
 
            h.  Reload the PLATO application.  The new master file
                should be attached by MFNX during initialization.
 
            i.  Change the required master files table through lesson
                "ipedit".
 
        Refer to the PLATO Operations Guide for more information.
 
        6.2.3    Changing a Required Master File
 
        The following steps must be followed whenever an existing
        master file is changed, such as when changing the NOS name
        of a master file or changing the disk pack on which a master
        file is located.  This procedure is also using during the
        initial installation of published courseware.
 
            a.  Change EQPDECKs if a new disk is to be added.
 
            b.  Make the required master file name change or move
                the master file to its new location.
 
            c.  Change procedure MFNX on the deadstart tape.  Both
                the RESOURC and ATTACH commands may have to be
                changed.
 
            d.  You may need to increase the value of the "ndsus"
                keyword in your PLATO configuration file when doing
                the initial installation of courseware.
 
            e.  Make changes to dump and load procedures so that
                the new master file will be properly dumped.  This
                includes changing MFDX and the master files to be
                dumped table through BACKMOD.
 
            f.  Build a new deadstart file with the modified copies
                of the EQPDECKs, MFNX, MFDX and your configuration
                file.
 
            g.  Reload the operating system on the new deadstart file.
 
            h.  Reload the PLATO application.  The changed master
                file should be attached by MFNX during initialization.
 
            i.  Change the required master files table through lesson
                "ipedit".
 
        Refer to the PLATO Operations Guide for more information.
 
        6.3    Binary File Space Management
 
                                                 page   48
 
 
 
 
        Lesson "binary" is a runner job which periodically goes
        through all of the binary master files and purges old
        binaries (thus making room for new ones).  The criteria
        for deletion may be changed by systems personnel by
        executing the lesson itself.  The controlling parameters
        are:
 
            a.  Minimum age for deletion:  This is the minimum number
                of hours a binary must exist before it is normally a
                candidate for deletion.  This is normally set to 24.
 
            b.  Disk space low threshold:  Binary deletion will be
                initiated whenever the number of file parts remaining
                on the master file is less than this number.  This is
                normally set to 500.
 
            c.  Disk space high threshold:  Once binary deletion has
                begun on a master file, it will continue until either
                this number of file parts are free or until the entire
                master file has been scanned.  This is normally set to
                900.
 
            d.  Number files threshold:  Binary deletion will be
                initiated whenever the number of files on a master file
                is greater than this number.
 
                                                 page   49
 
 
 
 
        7    CPU Usage Management
 
 
        7.1    Statistics Collection
 
        CPU usage may be examined via the "CPU consumption" option
        in lesson "system1".
 
        If you wish to collect statistics over a long period of
        time, you should do the following:
 
        a.  Create file "s0cpudata".
 
            NOTE:  Since this file name is longer than 8 characters,
            use the "create a file" option under the "File Options"
            in lesson "operator" to create it.
 
        b.  Add "s0cpustat" as a runner.
 
        These statistics may also be viewed via the option in
        "system1".
 
        7.2    Adjusting "cpspd"
 
        Application lessons should work the same on all systems,
        regardless of the machine speed.  In order to do this, the
        PLATO application must give more CPU time to users on slow
        machines and less to users on fast machines.  This is done
        by setting the "cpspd" configuration file keyword to the
        correct value for your machine.
 
        Initially, "cpspd" should be set to the value given in the
        section on configuration file keyword definitions.
 
        Lesson "s0cpspd" may then be executed to adjust the value of
        "cpspd" for the specific machine configuration in use.
 
        7.3    Adjusting "cshar"
 
        The "cshar" parameter is provided to allow sites to moderate
        the effect of the PLATO condensor with respect to other NOS
        jobs.  The PLATO condensor runs at CPU priority 72, in the
        range restricted to subsystems.  Time-sharing and batch jobs
        usually run at CPU priorities of 30-50.
 
        When the PLATO condensor is active, jobs at lower priorities
        are effectively blocked.  This is particularly annoying to
        time-sharing users, who are waiting for the initial feedback
        from their command.  The delay may be up to several minutes
        long for each lesson being condensed.
 
        The "cshar" parameter specifies the priority at which the
        condensor begins to share the CPU.  When a job of priority
        "cshar" or greater is in WAIT state (waiting for the CPU),
        the condensor will pause (via RECALL) periodically to let
        other jobs get some processing time.  However, this will
 
                                                 page   50
 
 
 
        cause longer condense times.
 
        The advantage to this method, rather than specifying a lower
        CPU priority for the condensor, is that the effect on con-
        dense times is fairly constant, regardless of the number of
        competing jobs.
 
        On PLATO systems with time-sharing users, we suggest that
        "cshar" be set to the same value as the PR parameter for
        the time-sharing (TS) service class.  The NOS computer per-
        formance utility, CPD, can be helpful in determining the
        load profile for your system.  We suggest you proceed with
        caution when tuning system performance; what seems obvious
        may lead not only to poorer performance, but a complex and
        confusing configuration.
 
                                                 page   51
 
 
 
 
        8    Network Management
 
 
        8.1    Physical Sites
 
        Physical sites may be numbered from 0 to 62.  The
        equipment connected to each site is determined by the
        configuration file.
 
        8.1.1    Adding a New Physical Site
 
        A new physical site should be added to your network as
        follows:
 
            a.  Change the configuration file network parameters to
                reflect the additional site(s).
 
            b.  If the site being added is a NAM site (keyword
                "n1sit"), make sure that the 2550 can drive as many
                ports as NAM sites defined.  The number of ports
                available on the 2550 can be changed by doing a partial
                build of CCP, which runs in the 2550.  A description of
                that partial build process can be found in the PLATO
                Operations Guide and the NOS Installation Handbook.
 
            c.  Bring up the application using the new configuration
                file.
 
            d.  Lengthen the terminal location list as follows:
 
                1.  Execute lesson "ipedit".
 
                2.  Choose option to "Change length of terminal location
                    list".
 
                3.  When asked the number of sites, enter the desired
                    number and press NEXT.
 
                4.  Edit file "sites" and set terminal locations.
 
            e.  Lengthen the ECS allotment tables as follows:
 
                1.  Execute lesson "ipedit".
 
                2.  Choose the option to "Change length of EM allotment
                    tables".
 
                3.  When asked the number of sites, enter the desired
                    number and press NEXT.
 
                4.  If desired, use the option in lesson "allocate" to
                    assign the additional stations to any of the existing
                    logical sites.
 
            f.  Change file "s0netwk" so that it has a minimum of
                18 * "nsite" records and "nsite" names.
 
                                                 page   52
 
 
 
 
            g.  Lengthen "narfile" so that it contains at least
                "nsite" records.
 
            h.  Update the network database as follows:
 
                1.  Execute lesson "pnet".
 
                2.  Press LAB for more editing options.
 
                3.  Choose the option to verify the database.
 
                4.  Press NEXT to start the verification.  The routine
                    will update the database as required.
 
        8.3    PLATO-NAM Interface (PNI)
 
        The PLATO/NAM Interface program (PNI) directs the traffic
        between NAM and PLATO.  NAM provides a simple interface to
        the network, but does not provide the type of interface
        required by PLATO.  PNI will perform the functions required
        to interface NAM to PLATO.  See the PLATO Operations Guide
        for more information about PNI.
 
        Key echo response time on PNI can be improved in terms of
        average and variability by making the frequently called NAM
        overlays CM/EM resident through LIBDECK entries.  The
        appropriate overlays can be identified in the output
        produced from the NAM STATS package.
 
                                                 page   53
 
 
 
 
        9    System Network Management
 
        Some PLATO systems are linked together with communications
        links which allow the use of features such as inter-system
        general notes, personal notes and file transfers.  Even
        without a link, a system may have an "authors" database for
        another system.  In either case, a network system table entry
        must be maintained for all systems that are intended to be in
        the network.
 
        9.1    Adding a System
 
        A system only needs to be added if the current system, and
        the new system, are both part of the linked system network,
        or if the "authors" database for a particular system is to
        be accessed.
 
        Use the following procedure to add a new system to the
        network system table.
 
        9.1.1    Check for enough room in table
 
        First, you must check that your system is configured to allow
        adding another system to the network system table.
 
            a.  Make sure that there is room in the network system
                table for another entry by checking the current
                number of systems in the table against the value of
                the "netms" configuration file keyword.  Increase
                the value of the "netms" configuration file keyword
                if the limit has been reached.
 
            b.  Use the following procedure to determine if you will
                need to lengthen common "link" of file "sysfile",
                which contains the network system table.
 
                1. Edit file "sysfile".
 
                2. Press "+" until you find the block named "link".
 
                3. Press the letter which appears next to block "link"
                   to edit it.
 
                4. Near the top of the next display, you will see the
                   current length of the common displayed.
 
                5. If this length is greater than (1 + 10 * the value
                   of the "netms" configuration file entry), you will
                   not need to lengthen this common.
 
            c.  If the current length of the common is too short, you
                should use the following procedure to lengthen it.
 
                1. At a convenient time, back out all users.  This is
                   necessary to prevent a user from writing a common
                   into file "sysfile" while the file is reorganized.
 
                                                 page   54
 
 
 
 
                2. Edit file "sysfile".
 
                3. Press "+" until you find the block named "link".
 
                4. Press the letter which appears next to block "link"
                   to edit it.
 
                5. Press SHIFT-LAB for "other options".
 
                6. Choose the "change length of common" option.
 
                7. Choose a new length which is the lowest multiple of
                   320 greater than (1 + 10 * the value of the "netms"
                   configuration file entry).
 
        9.1.2    Modify network configuration file
 
        If the new system is to be linked to your system through the
        PLATO Inter-system Link, you now need to modify your NOS
        communication network.  If the new system is not to be linked
        to your system, continue with modifying the PLATO network system
        table.
 
        To establish a connection to another system, you need to define
        a path through NAM's network configuration file and RHP's
        logical identifier (LID) table.  This procedure and other
        details about the installation and operation of these
        applications can be found in the following references:
 
            NOS Version 2 Feature Notes
            NOS Version 2 Installation Handbook           (60459320)
            NOS Version 2 Analysis Handbook               (60459300)
            Network Definition Language Reference Manual  (60480000)
 
        Follow these steps:
 
            a.   Update the LID configuration file.  Refer to the
                 the NOS Version 2 Analysis Handbook for examples.
                 You will need to share this information with the
                 admininstrators of the other system.
 
            b.   Update your NDL file.  Here are some examples of
                 NDL entries you may need to make:
 
                 * LINE definitions
 
                 line:   LINE,PORT=port,LTYPE=ltype,TIPTYPE=tiptype,
                         PSN=psn,NSVC=svcric,DFL=dfl,FRAME=frame,
                         RTIME=timer,RCOUNT=count,DCE=yn2.
                 device: TERMDEV,STIP=stiptyp,NCIR=numcir,NEN=encir,
                         DT=devtyp.
 
                 * INCALL and OUTCALL statements for X.25
 
                 INCALL   ANAME=ptfs,FAM=famname,UNAME=usernam,
                          SNODE=srcnode,PORT=portnum,DNODE=dstnode,
 
                                                 page   55
 
 
 
                          DBZ=dwnlsiz,UBZ=upbsize,DPLS=dpls.
                 OUTCALL  NAME1=ptfs,PID=pidname,SNODE=srcnode,
                          DNODE=dstnode,PORT=portnum,DBZ=dwnlsiz,
                          UBZ=ubpsize,DPLS=dpls,SHOST=srchost,
                          DHOST=dsthost,DTEA=dtea.
 
                 * INCALL and OUTCALL statements for shared 2550
 
                 INCALL   ANAME=ptfs,FAM=famname,UNAME=usernam,
                          DBL=dwnblim,ABL=abl.
                 OUTCALL  NAME1=ptfs,PID=pidname,SNODE=srcnode,
                          DNODE=dstnode,DBL=dwnblim,ABL=abl.
 
                 * INCALL and OUTCALL statements for direct line
                 *    or TRUNK
 
                 INCALL   ANAME=ptfs,FAM=famname,UNAME=usernam,
                          SNODE=srcnode,PORT=portnum,DNODE=dstnode,
                          DBZ=dwnlsiz,UBZ=upbsize,DPLS=dpls.
                 OUTCALL  NAME1=ptfs,PID=pidname,SNODE=srcnode,
                          DNODE=dstnode,PORT=portnum,DBZ=dwnlsiz,
                          UBZ=ubpsize,DPLS=dpls,SHOST=srchost,
                          DHOST=dsthost.
 
                 Refer to the NOS Version 2 Feature Notes for more
                 examples.
 
            c.   Build your new network configuration file and
                 corresponding local configuration file using the
                 NDLP system command.  Refer to the Network
                 Definition Language Reference Manual for examples.
 
            d.   Bring down NAM, then reload NAM using the new
                 configuration files and test your network.
 
        9.1.3    Modify PLATO network system table
 
        You now need to update the PLATO Network System Table,
        which includes descriptions of the links between your
        system and other systems, and the options available to
        each link.  Follow these steps:
 
            a.   Sign on to PLATO with your "p" signon.
 
            b.   Execute lesson "ipedit".
 
            c.   Choose the "Network Management" option.
 
            d.   Choose the "System Table" option.  This takes you
                 to the "Network System Table Management" display.
 
            e.   Choose the "Add a new system to the table" option.
 
            f.   Enter the name of the new system.  This should be
                 the same as the name specified by the "sid" PLATO
                 configuration file keyword on that system.
 
 
                                                 page   56
 
 
 
        The next steps to be taken depend on if the system is not
        connected to your system through a link, the system is
        directly connected to your system through a link or the
        system is indirectly connected to your system through a
        link.  A "directly connected" system is one which is linked
        to your system with no intermediate systems while an "indirectly
        connected" system is linked to your system through one or
        more intermediate systems.
 
        9.1.3.1    Unconnected Systems
 
        If the system you are adding is not connected to your system
        through a link, follow these steps.  Otherwise, continue with
        the next section.
 
            a.   Choose the "Not linked to this system" option.
 
            b.   On the next display, enter the routing identifier
                 for the new system.  This must be the same as the
                 "rid" PLATO configuration file keyword on the new
                 system.
 
            c.   If there is to be an authors database file for the
                 new system on your system, set the "authors database
                 availablity" option to on.
 
            d.   Continue with the "Final steps" section which follows.
 
        9.1.3.2    Directly Connected Systems
 
        If the new system is directly connected through a 2550 link,
        use the following procedure.  Most of the information you
        need to enter in the table will have to be provided to you
        by the administrators of the remote system.  If the new system
        is not directly connected by a 2550 link, continue with the
        next section.
 
            a.   Choose the "Directly connected by 2550 link" option.
 
            b.   On the next display, choose the "Routing Identifier"
                 option.  The RID you enter must be the same as the
                 "rid" PLATO configuration file keyword on the new
                 system.
 
            c.   Choose the "Link identifier:" option.  Enter the
                 logical identifier (LID) of the remote system (from
                 your LID configuration file) and press NEXT.
 
            d.   Choose the "Family name:" option.  Enter the NOS
                 family name to be used on the remote system and
                 press NEXT.
 
            e.   Choose the "User name password:" option.  Enter the
                 the user name password to be used on the remote
                 system and press NEXT.
 
            f.   Choose the "Charge number:" option.  If the remote
 
                                                 page   57
 
 
 
                 site will not be using NOS charge numbers, or, if
                 they plan to use the default charge number they
                 specified for the PLARECV/PLASEND user numbers,
                 press NEXT.  If they want to account for each
                 remote system's usage, enter the charge number that
                 was agreed upon by you and the remote sites
                 administrator here.  Refer to the "Link Accounting"
                 section of this document for details.
 
            g.   Choose the "Pack name:" option.  Enter the pack
                 name to be used on the remote system and press
                 NEXT.
 
            h.   Choose the "Pack type:" option.  If you specified
                 a pack name in the previous option, specify the
                 pack type and press NEXT.  The default is "dl".
 
            i.   Choose the "Encryption key:" option.  You and the
                 administator of the remote system should decide
                 upon a alphanumeric key of up to 7 characters
                 that is used as the seed for encrypting files
                 sent between your systems.  This key is used only
                 between your system and this particular remote
                 system.  You should have a different key for each
                 remote system in your table.  When you have decided
                 upon a key, enter it and press NEXT.  You should
                 remind the remote system administrator to do the
                 same for your system in his network table.
 
            j.   Choose the "Encryption method:" option.  Select
                 "a. header only".  (The option to encrypt the data
                 being transfered is not available at this time.)
 
            k.   Turn on the appropriate data transfer options.
                 For instance, if you want to be able to send and
                 receive pnotes, turn both these options on.  You
                 must also set the "Status of link with this system"
                 option to on to allow any data transfers to take
                 place.  You can inhibit all data transfers by setting
                 this one option to off.
 
            l.   If there is to be an authors database file for the
                 new system on your system, set the "authors database
                 availability" option to on.
 
            m.   Continue with the "Final steps" section which follows.
 
        9.1.3.3    Indirectly Connected Systems
 
        If the new system is indirectly connected through a 2550
        link, use the following procedure.  Most of the information
        you need to enter in the table will have to be provided to
        you by the administrators of the remote system.
 
            a.   Choose the "Indirectly connected through a 2550 link"
                 option.
 
 
                                                 page   58
 
 
 
            b.   On the next display, choose the "Routing Identifier"
                 option.  The RID you enter must be the same as the
                 "rid" PLATO configuration file keyword on the new
                 system.
 
            c.   Choose the "First intermediate system:" option.
                 Enter the name of the system that is the first
                 node between your system and the remote system,
                 and press NEXT.  The name you enter should be the
                 same as that specified by the "sid" PLATO configuration
                 file keyword on the intermediate system.
 
            d.   Choose the "Encryption key:" option.  You and the
                 administator of the remote system should decide
                 upon a alphanumeric key of up to 7 characters
                 that is used as the seed for encrypting files
                 sent between your systems.  This key is used only
                 between your system and this particular remote
                 system.  You should have a different key for each
                 remote system in your table.  When you have decided
                 upon a key, enter it and press NEXT.  You should
                 remind the remote system administrator to do the
                 same for your system in his network table.
 
            e.   Choose the "Encryption method:" option.  Select
                 "a. header only".  (The option to encrypt the data
                 being transfered is not available at this time.)
 
            f.   Turn on the appropriate data transfer options.
                 For instance, if you want to be able to send and
                 receive pnotes, turn both these options on.  You
                 must also set the "Status of link with this system"
                 option to on to allow any data transfers to take
                 place.  You can inhibit all data transfers by setting
                 this one option to off.
 
            g.   If there is to be an authors database file for the
                 new system on your system, set the "authors database
                 availability" option to on.
 
            h.   Continue with the "Final steps" section which follows.
 
        9.1.3.4    Final steps
 
        Once you have completed entering information required for
        the type of system being added, follow these steps.
 
            a.   Press BACK to return to the "Network System Table
                 Management" index.
 
            b.   Choose the "Update the EM copy of the system table"
                 option.  Press SHIFT-HELP when requested.
 
            c.   If the system is directly or indirectly connected
                 via the PLATO inter-system link, run the "queue
                 verification" system option in lesson "s0rhp".  If
                 errors occur, files "3netinq" and "3netoutq" may have
 
                                                 page   59
 
 
 
                 to be lengthened.
 
            d.   If there is to be an authors database for the new
                 system, use the system options of lesson "authors"
                 to add the new database.
 
        9.2    Deleting a System
 
        A system may be removed from the network as follows:
 
            a.  Use the "network management" option in lesson "ipedit"
                to delete the system from the network table.
 
            b.  Use the option to "update the EM copy of the system
                table".
 
            c.  Run the "queue verification" system option in lesson
                "s0rhp".  When it pauses on an entry for a non-
                existent system, press SHIFT-HELP to delete it.
 
            d.  If the system is directly or indirectly linked by a
                2550 link, you must also remove it from your LID
                configuration file and NDL file.
 
        9.3    Renaming a System
 
        Rename a system as follows:
 
            a.  Use the "network management" options in "ipedit" to
                inspect the entry for the system to be renamed.  Write
                down the current parameter settings.
 
            b.  Delete the system from the table, but  DO NOT run
                the verification options.
 
            c.  Add a system with the new name and set all parameters
                to those you wrote down.
 
            d.  Use the option to "update the EM copy of the system
                table".
 
        9.4    Link Accounting
 
        The PLATO Inter-System Link has been designed to accomodate
        the standard NOS accounting mechanisms via charge and project
        numbers.  At this time, there is no accounting within PLATO,
        so charges cannot be billed to a specific user, group or
        account.
 
        You have the option to use:
 
            1)   No charge and project number.  In other words,
                 no accounting at all.
 
            2)   Default charge and project numbers for user names
                 PLASEND and PLARECV.  This will give accounting
                 for link traffic on your system as a whole.  This
 
                                                 page   60
 
 
 
                 will not show you from which remote systems the
                 traffic is coming.
 
            3)   A charge number specified by you, with a project
                 number for each remote system.  This will give
                 accounting for link traffic based on the originating
                 system.
 
        Whatever option you choose, remote systems which connect to
        your system must have the corresponding information in their
        PLATO network system table.  An error in charge information
        will inhibit link traffic until corrected.
 
        9.4.1    No Charge/Project Numbers
 
        If you do not specify a charge number in either the PLATO
        network system table or as defaults for PLASEND/PLARECV,
        there will be no accounting for link traffic.  The "charge
        number" option for your system in the PLATO network system
        table should be set to the default value.
 
        9.4.2    Default Charge/Project Numbers
 
        When you specify default charge and project numbers for user
        names PLASEND and PLARECV, you will have a mechanism for
        accounting for link traffic on your system as a whole.  This
        will show how much link traffic you have, but will not show
        from which remote system the traffic comes.
 
            1)   Set the default charge and project numbers for both
                 PLASEND and PLARECV.  This is done by using the
                 MODVAL CN and PN parameters.  We recommend that you
                 use "PLATOLINK" as the default charge number for
                 both user names.  The default project numbers that
                 you specify for the two user names may be different
                 if you wish.
 
            2)   Set up the charge and project number you chose as
                 defaults, using the NOS PROFILE command.  Refer to
                 the NOS Version 2 Administration Handbook for more
                 information.
 
            3)   The "charge number" option for your system in the
                 PLATO network system table should be set to the
                 default value (*).
 
        9.4.3    Charge Initiating System
 
        When you specify a charge number in your PLATO network system
        table and have remote systems specify a charge number for
        your system in their PLATO network system table, you will be
        able to account for traffic based on the originating system.
 
              1) Use PROFILE to create a charge number for link
                 traffic.  We recommend the name "PLATOLINK".  Then
                 define the following project numbers:
 
 
                                                 page   61
 
 
 
                 - one named "OVERHEAD" for link management jobs,
                 - one named "UNKNOWN" for unidentified connections,
                 - one for each remote system, using the system
                   routing identifier (RID) as the name.
 
              2) Use MODVAL to set the default charge and project
                 numbers for user names PLASEND and PLARECV.  Set the
                 charge number to your specified charge number, and
                 set the project number to "UNKNOWN".  Connections
                 using the default charge and project numbers will be
                 accounted under this project number.
 
                 The user numbers must also have the CNRD (charge
                 not restricted to default) access word bit set.
 
              3) Set the charge number for your system in the PLATO
                 network system table.
 
        It is possible for remote systems to use more than one charge
        number, but link jobs submitted by your system will use the
        charge number specified in your system's entry in the PLATO
        network system table.
 
        Wherever possible, the RID of the system which initiated
        the traffic will be used as the project number for charges.
        The link management jobs which periodically check for in-
        coming requests will be charged to the "OVERHEAD" project
        number.  Connections which do not specify a charge number
        will be charged to the "UNKNOWN" project number.
 
                                                 page   62
 
 
 
 
        20    ESM Management
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                    APPENDIX A
 
                    EXTENDED SEMI-CONDUCTOR MEMORY MANAGEMENT
 
                                                 page   63
 
 
 
 
        20.1    ESM Management
 
        This section describes the management of Extended Semi-
        conductor Memory.  Documentation of memory management
        within the PLATO application is described in the section on
        EM Management.
 
        The PLATO application, on 17x, or 170-700 series mainframes
        uses either ECS (Extended Core Storage) or ESM (Extended
        Semiconductor Memory) to store lesson material.  The 800
        series mainframes use UEM (Unified Extended Memory).  This
        section is only applicable to systems which use ESM.  The
        section on the "Low-speed port / DDP test program" is
        applicable to systems which use ESM or ECS.
 
        ESM may either run in ECS mode or in ESM mode.  In either
        mode the side-door port is available and the error log
        maintained by the hardware is available.  In ESM mode the
        following additional features are available:
 
            1.  addressing up to 16 million words
            2.  accessing the 16,384 extended flag registers
            3.  use of the relocation memory to flaw banks
 
        20.2    Configuration file keywords
 
        The following PLATO configuration file keywords are used
        only on systems which use Extended Semiconductor Memory
        running in ESM mode.
 
 
        EFRB:  extended flag register base
 
            The value of "efrb" is the base or first ESM flag
            register to use.  This allows several jobs (possibly
            even multiple systems) to share the extended flag
            registers.
 
            The PLATO application uses 64 flag registers, starting
            with the base register.
 
            On systems without ESM, "efrb" should be omitted.  On
            systems with ESM, the usual value of "efrb" is 64.
 
            Default value:  64
 
        20.3    Program ESM
 
        This program is used to load ESM relocation memory, and to
        monitor and log errors.  It is only used on systems which
        are using Extended Semi-conductor Memory.  Many of the
        options of this program are used only if the memory is
        used in ESM mode.
 
            The control statement format is:
 
 
                                                 page   64
 
 
 
                ESM(nk)
 
            where:
 
                nk = NK, if you do not want to use the K-display.
                     The program will roll out and periodicially
                     roll in to update the disk copy of the error log.
 
            The K-display commands are listed below.  All of the
            commands, except for "ERRORS", require that there be
            an ESM controller present, which is the case when running
            more than two million words of ESM.
 
            Command     Description
 
            CLEAR.      Clear the error logs.  All single bit and
                        double bit errors are removed from the ESM
                        error log.
 
            CONFIG.     Build a relocation memory that matches the
                        ESM configuration.  No programs should be
                        using ESM when this option is used.
 
            END.        Save the relocation memory and terminate job.
                        The relocation memory is not loaded into ESM.
 
            ERRORS.     Display the current copy of the ESM error
                        logs.
 
            FLAW,bsu,bank.
            FLAW,bank.  Toggle the flaw status of a bank.  If no BSU
                        is specified, BSU 0 is assumed.  The relocation
                        memory is sorted into bank order, placing all
                        flawed banks at the end.
 
            GO.         Save and load the relocation memory.
                        Terminate program.
 
            HELP.       Display the list of commands on the right
                        screen.
 
            INIT.       Initialize the relocation memory to 16 million
                        words.  When the relocation memory is over 8
                        million words, both the left and right screens
                        are used to display the relocation memory.
                        No programs should be using ESM when this
                        option is used and no shared packs should be
                        loaded in a multi-mainframe configuration.
 
            LOAD.       Load relocation memory from file ESMRM
                        under user SYSTEMX.
 
            MA,addr.    Set "addr" as the highest logical address in
                        use.  No programs will be able to access past
                        "addr".  This extra memory may be used by
                        Customer Engineering or may contain reserve or
                        or flawed banks.
 
                                                 page   65
 
 
 
 
            PA,addr.    Set "addr" as the highest physical entry in
                        use in relocation memory.  "addr" is the
                        number of banks available - 1.
 
            RELOC.      Display relocation memory.
 
            SAVE.       Write relocation memory to file and save it
                        for later loading.  This file is called
                        ESMRM and is defined under user SYSTEMX.
 
            STOP.       Terminate program.
 
            SET,LA=addr,PA=addr.
                        Set relocation entry "LA" to "PA".  This
                        option should only be used when specific
                        relocation memory layout is required.
 
            ZERO.       Write zeroes to all of ESM.  This option can
                        be useful in clearing errors.  No programs
                        should be accessing ESM when this option is
                        used.
 
            When the relocation memory is displayed, the following
            symbols denote special status of a bank:
 
                * - not addressable
                f - flawed
 
        20.3.2    Automatic Loading and Monitoring
 
                               NOTE
            THE FOLLOWING SHOULD ONLY BE DONE IF THE ESM
                                                        
            IS RUNNING IN ESM MODE.
 
 
        Prior to NOS 2.1, ESM error monitoring was only performed on
        PLATO systems by program ESM.  Now, error monitoring can be
        performed by program ESM by using the SP EST entry to
        identify the ESM maintenance channel or by the system by
        identifying the ESM maintenance channel by using the "MC"
        parameter on the ESM EST entry ("DE").  See the NOS V2
        Analysis Handbook for more information.
 
        The following is applicable only if ESM errorlog monitoring
        is done by program ESM.
 
        You can automatically load the relocation memory and monitor
        the error log by entering "X.ESM(NK)" at the console.  To
        insure that this is run at all times, this entry is normally
        added as a DSD entry in the system IPRDECK.
 
        When ESM is first brought up with the NK option, it will
        load the relocation memory which has been previously saved
        and roll itself out.  Every five minutes the program is
        rolled in again.  It checks the error log for new entries
        and logs each message in the NOS error log and in dataset
 
                                                 page   66
 
 
 
        "s0esmerr" if it exists and is formatted correctly.
 
        NOS error log messages issued by ESM have the following
        format:
 
        ESM SNGL ERR,BSU1,BANK22,SCAN3,CS4,BIT55 CAB66,MODULE77-88,CHIPf99.
        ESM DBLE ERR,BSU1,BANK22,SCAN3,CS4,xxxxx CAB66,MODULE77-88.
 
            where:
 
            1       = BSU number
            22      = bank number
            3       = scan number
            4       = chip select number
            55      = bit number (or MB if multiple bit error)
            66      = cabinet name containing the board in error
            77-88   = module name containing the board in error
            f99     = chip location on board
            xxxxx   = 13 bits of address excluding BSU, bank, scan,
                      and chip select
 
        Dataset "s0esmerr" also contains a log of the error messages.
        The dataset can be of any size.  It is treated as a circular
        file.  When an entry is written to the last slot in the file,
        the next entry is written to the first slot.  The record
        size must be 320 words.  The first record contains pointers
        to the next slot:
 
            Word 1 - 'esmerrs' (single quotes indicate right-
                     justified, zero filled)
            Word 2 - record number to which next message is written.
                     Initially, the record number should be 2.
            Word 3 - word number within record.
                     Initially, the word number should be 1.
 
        Records 2 through the end of the file contain error log
        message prefaced by the date and time of entry.  If
        a message does not fit in a record, the next record is
        used; messages do not span record boundaries.
 
        20.3.3    Reloading the Memory
 
                               NOTE
                   THE FOLLOWING SHOULD ONLY BE
                   DONE IF THE ESM IS RUNNING IN
                   ESM MODE.
 
        The relocation memory must be loaded before NOS or the PLATO
        application may access ESM.  Once the relocation memory is
        loaded, it only needs to be reloaded after:
 
            -  power off
            -  banks need to be flawed or unflawed
            -  unusual hardware problem
 
        Normally, program ESM will automatically load the relocation
        memory when it first comes up.  However, under certain
 
                                                 page   67
 
 
 
        conditions when the relocation memory has been destroyed or
        because the part NOS uses has been reconfigured, it will be
        necessary to load the relocation memory in the following
        manner:
 
            -  Deadstart WITHOUT an ECS equipment (DE or DP) entry
               in the EQPDECK.
 
            -  Enter "X.ESM(NK)." at the console (unless this is
               automatically done via an IPRDECK entry).
 
            -  Re-deadstart in the normal manner.
 
        20.3.4    Error Log Monitoring
 
        ESM hardware uses SECDED to detect and correct for memory
        errors whenever a single, double, or multiple-bit error
        occurs, and an entry is made in an error log maintained by
        the hardware.  Program ESM monitors this error log and
        displays NOS error log message whenever a new entry is made.
        You can display these errors as follows:
 
            -  Enter "X.ESM." at the console.
 
            -  Assign the K display.
 
            -  Enter "K.ERRORS." if the error display is not present.
 
            -  enter "K.CLEAR." to clear the error log, if desired.
 
            -  Enter "K.GO." when finished.
 
        20.3.5    Flawing banks
 
                               NOTE
                   THE FOLLOWING SHOULD ONLY BE
                   DONE IF THE ESM IS RUNNING IN
                   ESM MODE.
 
        ESM banks may be logically flawed as follows:
 
            -  Roll the ESM job in or initiate via "X.ESM." if it is
               not active.
 
            -  Assign the K display.
 
            -  Enter "K.RELOC." if the relocation display is not
               present.
 
            -  Use "K.FLAW,bsu,bank." to toggle the flaw status of
               the appropriate banks.
 
            -  Enter "K.GO." when all changes are made.
 
        20.3.6    Changing ESM size
 
        Whenever you change ESM size, alter the configuration table
 
                                                 page   68
 
 
 
        as follows:
 
            -  Redefine the ESM entry in the EQPDECK to use the
               new size.
 
            -  After deadstarting, enter "X.ESM." at the console.
               Do NOT load the PLATO application software at this time.
 
            -  Assign the K-display to the control point on request.
 
            -  Use the entry "K.PA,rm" to set the maximum physical
               ESM memory address to use.
 
            -  Use the entry "K.MA,rm" to set the maximum logical
               ESM memory address to use.
 
            -  Enter "K.GO." at the console.
 
            -  Change the "rax" and "flx" PLATO configuration file
               entries, if desired, and load the PLATO application.
 
        20.4    Low-speed port / DDP test program
 
        The program DDPT is an on-line diagnostic program used to
        test a DDP or low-speed port concurrently with normal PLATO
        operations.  See the PLATO Operations Guide for documentation
        of this program.
 
                                                 page   69
 
 
 
 
        21    Computer Interface Unit Network
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                    APPENDIX B
 
                    COMPUTER INTERFACE UNIT NETWORK PARAMETERS
 
                                                 page   70
 
 
 
 
        21.1    EQPDECK entries
 
        The following describes EQPDECK entries needed to run the
        Computer Interface Unit Network.
 
        Note:  CYBER 170-800 series mainframes do not support the
               CIU network.
 
        These parameters are used.
 
              ord = One- to three-digit octal Equipment Status Table
                    (EST) ordinal of equipment
              st  = (status)  ON or OFF
              eq  = (equipment)  Controller number, which may vary
                    with each system.  The most commonly used number
                    is shown.
              un  = Unit number
              ch  = Channel number to which the equipment is connected
                    (ch0 or ch1 is used if two channel numbers are
                    required)
              ic  = Input channel
              oc  = Output channel
 
 
            1.  CIU
 
                    EQord=CI,ST=st,EQ=0,UN=un,CH=ic/oc.
 
                If the system has one CIU, set "un" to 0.  If the
                system has two CIUs, set "un" to 0 for the first CIU
                and to 1 for the second CIU.
 
            2.  PIO low-speed port / DDP
 
                If the system has one CIU, use the following entry.
 
                    EQord=D2,ST=st,EQ=5,UN=un,CH=ch.
 
                If the system has two CIUs, you must also have two low-
                speed port or DDP channels and use the following entry.
 
                    EQord=D2,ST=st,EQ=5,UN=un,CH=ch0/ch1.
 
        21.2    Configuration file keywords
 
 
        21.2.1    Unique keywords
 
        The following keywords are only used on systems which have
        a Computer Interface Unit (CIU).
 
        C0SIT:  first site on CIU 0
 
            The value of "c0sit" is the number of the first site for
            which the CIU communication network is used.
 
 
                                                 page   71
 
 
 
            The usual value of "c0sit" is 0.
 
            Default value:  0
 
 
        C1SIT:  first site on CIU 1
 
            The value of "c1sit" is the number of the first site to
            be used by a second CIU.
 
            The usual value of "c1sit" is 0 since most systems do
            not have a second CIU.
 
            Default value:  0
 
 
        ETED:  enhanced terminal error detection
 
            The value of "eted" is either ON or OFF depending on
            whether or not enhanced terminal error detection is
            enabled.  When this is ON, a block checksum is sent as
            part of data sent to the terminal, and this checksum is
            used to detect errors and request re-transmission of bad
            data.  When this parameter is OFF, only the single
            parity bit sent with each terminal word is used for
            error detection.
 
            The usual value of "eted" is ON.
 
            Default value:  OFF
 
 
        FDLAY:  frame delay for error correction
 
            For purposes of error correction, terminal output must
            be retained in EM for a long enough time to be sure
            that the output was received by the terminal without
            error.  The parameter "fdlay" determines the minimum
            time that such output is retained.
 
            At 1200 baud, the standard "fdlay" of 45 is equivalent to
            retaining the output for 45/57 (approximately 3/4) of a
            second.  If a system experiences longer echo times, then
            a larger value for "fdlay" must be used.
 
            The usual value for "fdlay" is 45.
 
            Default value:  45
 
 
        FRAM1:  CIU 0 frame length
 
            The value of "fram1" determines the size of the "frame"
            used to send output to CIU terminals on the first CIU.
            A frame contains one output word for each terminal for
            which output is pending.
 
 
                                                 page   72
 
 
 
            The usual value of "fram1" is:
                a.  50 for systems with less than 64 CIU users
                b.  100 for system with 64 - 128 CIU users
                c.  200 for systems with more than 128 CIU users
 
            Default value:  0
 
        FRAM2:  CIU1 frame length
 
            The value of "fram2" determines the size of the "frame"
            used to send output to CIU terminals on the second CIU.
 
            The usual value of "fram2" is 0, since most systems have
            only one CIU.  If two CIUs are used, use the same values
            as given for "fram1".
 
            Default value:  0
 
 
        IST3A:  IST-III ASCII resident availability
 
            The value of "ist3a" is either ON or OFF depending on
            whether a user of an IST3 terminal may download the ASCII
            resident while on the CIU.  The reason for having this
            parameter is to allow a user on the CIU to load the ASCII
            resident and then use some other ASCII feature such as
            the Interactive Access Facility (IAF).
 
            The usual value of "ist3a" is OFF.
 
            Default value:  OFF
 
 
        IST31:  IST-III resident 1 availability
 
            The value of "ist31" is either ON or OFF depending on
            whether resident 1 for the IST-III is available.  This
            resident is a development version.  The normal resident
            used is resident 0.
 
            The usual value of "ist31" is OFF.
 
            Default value:  OFF
 
 
        NC0SI:  number of sites on CIU0
 
            The value of "nc0si" determines the number of sites
            connected to the first CIU.
 
            Default value:  0
 
 
        NC1SI:  number of sites on CIU 1
 
            The value of "nc1si" determines the number of sites
            connected to the second CIU.  Systems without a second
 
                                                 page   73
 
 
 
            CIU should set "nc1si" to 0.
 
            Default value:  0
 
        21.2.1.1    Unique keywords (continued)
 
        PNET:  network database (lesson "pnet") lockout
 
            The value of "pnet" determines if a check is to be made
            to insure that the network configuration for each terminal
            has been defined each time a user signs in.
 
            If the value of "pnet" is ON, when a user attempts to
            sign in on a terminal whose network configuration has not
            been defined in the network database maintained through
            lesson "pnet", access will not be allowed.  This check
            is only made for terminals on the CIU network.
 
            The usual value of "pnet" is OFF.
 
            Default value:  OFF
 
        21.2.2    Changes to other keywords
 
        NAMPD:  PLATO drop time
 
            The value of "nampd" is the time in seconds between
            the time the last user of PLATO through the ASCII
            network signs out and the time PNI drops the PLATO
            application.
 
            This feature should be used ONLY on PNI-only systems.
            On a system with both CIU and ASCII networks, if "nampd"
            is set to a non-zero number, users of PLATO through the
            CIU network could still be signed on when PLATO is
            dropped by PNI after the last ASCII network user signs
            out.
 
            Default value:  0
 
 
        NSITE:  number of physical sites
 
            On systems which use both the CIU and ASCII networks
            there are special considerations when setting the value
            of "nsite".
 
            All terminals will belong to a set of sites which are
            serviced by either the CIU network driver, PIO, or by
            the ASCII network driver, PNI.
 
            These sets of sites must include all sites (except
            possibly the runner site), and must not overlap.  For
            example, the following is an acceptable configuration:
 
                nsite=13.   thirteen physical sites on this system
                c0sit=0.    CIU 0 network begins at site 0
 
                                                 page   74
 
 
 
                nc0si=8.    eight sites on CIU 0
                nc1si=0.    CIU 1 is not available
                n1sit=8.    ASCII network starts at site 8
                nn1si=4.    four sites on ASCII network
 
                *  note that site 12 is undefined so it may only
                *  be used for runner terminals.
 
        21.3    Runner programs
 
        These runner programs are used only on systems which have
        a CIU network and are optional.
 
        netmon:  CIU network monitor
 
                cycle = 1
                restart = 10
                priority = 30
 
        s0ciuru:  collect CIU network performance statistics viewed
            through lesson "ciudiag"
 
                cycle = 20
                restart = 5
                priority = 30
 
                                                 page   75
 
 
 
 
        22    Multi-mainframe
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                    APPENDIX C
 
                         MULTI-MAINFRAME CONFIGURATIONS
 
                                                 page   76
 
 
 
 
        22.1    Multi-mainframe Considerations
 
        (Multi-mainframe features are not available for CYBER 170-800
        series machines.)
 
        Several things should be kept in mind when configuring a
        multi-mainframe PLATO application.
 
        a.  Multiple executors and formatters should be spread out
            over as many mainframes as possible.  Since these
            programs are Central Processing Unit (CPU) bound, much
            more will be lost than gained if two of them end up
            contending for the same processor.  This is especially
            true of formatters; two heavily loaded formatters will
            simply take over a machine, and leave little or no CPU
            time for anything else.
 
        b.  CONDENSORs are disk bound.  When the PLATO application
            is first loaded, and there is little for the executors
            and formatters to do, one machine can support up to three
            CONDENSORs reasonably well.  Once the initial peak loads
            are past, extra CONDENSORs will be dropped and loaded
            automatically as needed.
 
        c.  Essential equipment (disk controllers, CIUs, network
            devices, Extended Semiconductor Memory (ESM) side door
            ports, etc.) should be switchable between the usual
            primary mainframe and one other, in order to provide a
            backup in case the usual primary mainframe fails, or
            must be taken out of service for some reason.  If every-
            thing is connected identically (same channels, etc.), it
            should be possible to switch primary mainframes simply
            by deadstarting with a different Machine Identifier (MID)
            and switching non-shared devices over to the alternate
            mainframe.
 
            The "mford" configuration file entry would also have to
            change and file LCONFIG would have to be removed to
            identify the backup system as the primary mainframe.
 
        22.2    The "config" File
 
        Each mainframe in the configuration must have its own copy
        of the configuration file.  It is likely there will be slight
        differences in the configuration file for each mainframe.
        In some cases, such differences are mandatory.
 
        The basic configuration file can still be shared between all
        mainframes and the keywords which must be different can be
        placed in the file LCONFIG to override the matching ones in
        the basic configuration file.  LCONFIG serves two purposes.
        It allows this replacing of configuration parameters and it
        identifies the mainframe as a secondary one by its presence.
        LCONFIG is placed in the the permanent file catalog of NOS
        user name PLATOMF (user index 377773b).
 
 
                                                 page   77
 
 
 
        22.2.1    Changes for Mainframe 0
 
        When adding a mainframe, the following parameters MUST be
        changed on the primary mainframe (mainframe 0).
 
            nmf     must be set to the new number of mainframes
 
        Other parameters which are likely to change when adding
        additional executors, CONDENSORs, etc.:
 
            ncond
            nexec
            nfmtr
 
        If you are expanding your system size (EM size, disk,
        network, etc.) at the same time, review all configuration
        file entries to see if they need to be changed.
 
        22.2.2    Keywords required for all mainframes
 
        The keywords in this section must be included in the
        configuration file for every mainframe in a multi-mainframe
        environment.  They are the only parameters required for
        any mainframe which will not be running an executor.
 
        The parameters below must be the same on all mainframes:
 
            flx
            njob
            rax
            subun
 
        The parameters below are required on all mainframes, but
        each mainframe may use its own setting:
 
            famly
            mford
            mmf
            passw
            secur
            syot
 
        22.2.3    Keywords required for executors
 
        On any mainframe which is running an executor, all keywords
        in the configuration file must be the same with the exception
        of those listed in the previous section and those listed below:
 
            cpspd
 
        22.3    Configuration file keywords
 
 
        22.3.1    Unique keywords
 
        The following configuration file keywords are used only on
        systems which are running the PLATO application in a multi-
 
                                                 page   78
 
 
 
        mainframe configuration.
 
 
        MFORD:  mainframe ordinal
 
            The value of "mford" determines the mainframe ordinal.
 
            The primary mainframe uses the value 0 and secondary
            mainframes use a value greater than 0 but less than "nmf".
 
            Default value:  0
 
 
        MMF:  jobs on this mainframe
 
            The value of "mmf" is either ON or OFF depending on
            whether the PLATO application may use this mainframe for
            application related jobs (executors, CONDENSORs, etc.).
            If it is set to OFF, the second mainframe is only
            available for batch jobs.
 
            The usual value for "mmf" is ON.
 
            Default value:  ON
 
 
        NEXEC:  number of executors
 
            The value of "nexec" determines the number of PLATO
            executors to be run on all mainframes.  The distribution
            of these executors over the different mainframes is
            up to the site.
 
            If more than one executor is available, users will be
            automatically distributed to the different executors
            in a manner that attempts to even out the load.
 
            The value of "nexec" must be less than or equal to 3.
 
            Default value:  1
 
 
        NFMTR:  number of formatters
 
            The value of "nfmtr" determines the number of formatters
            to be run on all mainframes.  The distribution of the
            formatters is up to the site.
 
            If the value of "nfmtr" is 2, a FORMAT will be run in
            addition to FRAMAT.  The formatters always remain at
            control points.  This option should not be needed except
            on heavily-loaded multi-mainframe systems.
            systems.
 
            The value of "nfmtr" must be either 1 or 2.
 
            Default value:  1
 
                                                 page   79
 
 
 
 
 
        NMF:  number of mainframes
 
            The value of "nmf" determines the number of mainframes
            available for the submission of batch jobs or for the
            PLATO application jobs.
 
            Most systems have only a single mainframe, so "nmf" is
            usually set to 1.  If "nmf" is greater than 1, the
            parameter "bgecs" may have to be increased because of
            the extra extended memory used by MASTORN.
 
            Default value:  1
 
        22.3.2    Changes to other keywords
 
        The following configuration file keywords may have different
        meanings in a multi-mainframe configuration.  See the main
        section on the "PLATO Configuration File" for more information
        on each of these keywords.
 
 
        NAM:  PLATO-NAM Interface (PNI) availability
 
            The value of "nam" is set to the number of copies of
            NAM and PNI running on a system when the ASCII network
            is in use for PLATO.
 
            On systems which do not use the ASCII network for PLATO,
            the value of "nam" must be set to 0.  On single-main-
            frame systems which use the ASCII network for PLATO, the
            value of "nam" must be 1.  On multi-mainframe systems,
            the maximum value of "nam" must be less than or equal to 3.
 
            Default value:  1
 
 
        NN1SI:  number of NAM (PNI) sites
 
            The value of "nn1si" determines the number of PLATO sites
            (groups of 32 terminals) for use with the ASCII network.
            If running in a multi-mainframe configuration with more
            than one copy of NAM and PNI, this keyword determines the
            number of PLATO sites assigned to the PNI with the ordinal
            1, while "nn2si" determines the number of PLATO sites
            assigned to the PNI with ordinal 2, etc.
 
            Default value:  2
 
 
        NSITE:  number of physical sites
 
            When running with more than one copy of NAM and PNI in
            a multi-mainframe configuration with sites assigned to
            each copy of PNI, the sets of sites must include all
            sites defined by the value of "nsite" with the exception
 
                                                 page   80
 
 
 
            of the highest site which is used by the runner programs
            and all sets of sites must be contiguous with no overlap.
 
            The following is a valid configuration:
 
                nsite=7.
                n1sit=0.    PNI 1 sites begin at 0
                nn1si=4.    for four sites
                n2sit=4.    PNI 2 sites begin at 4
                nn2si=2.    for two sites
 
                *  note that site 6 is undefined so it may only
                *  be used for runner terminals.
 
 
        N1SIT:  first NAM (PNI) site
 
            The value of "nn1si" determines the number of PLATO sites
            allocated.  Each site may be used by up to 32 terminals.
            If running in a multi-mainframe configuration with more
            than one copy of NAM and PNI, this keyword determines the
            number of PLATO sites assigned to the PNI with the ordinal
            1, while "nn2si" determines the number of PLATO sites
            assigned to the PNI with ordinal 2, etc.
 
 
        SECUR:  application security level
 
            The value of "secur" is either ON or OFF depending on
            the desired security level.  It is mainframe dependent,
            so each mainframe in a multi-mainframe system may use
            a different value.  When set to ON, system lessons are
            prevented from accessing information for a mainframe.
            For example, if the value of "secur" is ON, no console
            displays may be seen via lesson "console".
 
 
        SYOT:  system origin permission
 
            The value of "syot" can be different on each mainframe.
 
            The value of "syot" must be greater than 0 on any main-
            frame which is to run a PLATO executor so that utilities
            such as "ldr" will work correctly.
 
        22.4    System lesson parameters
 
        An option in lesson "ipedit" can be used to determine on
        which mainframes additional CONDENSORs will be submitted
        when they are required.
 
        Another option in lesson "ipedit" is used to edit a list of
        mainframe to which jobs may be submitted.
 
        See the section on "System Lesson Parameters" in this
        Handbook.
 
 
                                                 page   81
 
 
 
        22.5    LIBDECK Changes
 
        When additional PLATO executors are to be run, the following
        entry must be added to the LIBDECK:
 
        *proc     exec
 
                                                 page   82
 
 
 
 
        70    Release Changes
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                RELEASE CHANGES
 
                                                 page   83
 
 
 
 
        70.1    Release Changes
 
        The following changes have been made to the PLATO Configuration
        Handbook for the current release.
 
        TOPIC                           SECTION  CHANGE DELETE ADD
 
        Editorial changes made
 
                                                 page   84
 
 
 
 
        80    Index
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                      INDEX
 
                                                 page   85
 
 
 
                ALPHABETICAL CROSS-REFERENCE INDEX
 
 
 
        This index supplements the Table of Contents.  Items will
        be found in alphabetical order.  Entries beginning with a
        number follow "z" and entries with a number as the second
        character will be found at the end of that alphabetical list.
 
 
                                                 page   86
 
 
 
 
        80.1    Index: A - B
 
        acclog0 .......................................  3.2.6
        ACCOUNT EQPDECK entry .........................  2.2
        account log     (see "NOS account log")
        adding a required master file .................  6.2.2
        adjusting EM allocation .......................  5.3.2
        allocate ......................................  5.2
                                                         5.3.2
                                                         8.1
        allocating EM .................................  5.3
        archive recycle period ........................  4
        author mode display ...........................  4.1
        authors .......................................  3.2.6.1
                                                         3.2.8
                                                         3.2.9
                                                         9.2
                                                         9.2.1
 
 
        BACKDMP LIBDECK entry .........................  2.3
        BACKMOD .......................................  6.2.2
                                                         6.2.3
        batch jobs ....................................  3.2.1
                                                         3.2.1
                                                         3.2.6.1
                                                         3.2.7
                                                         3.2.9
        batch submission control ......................  4
        "bgecs" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.1
                                                        22.3.1
        "bgpct" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.1
        binary ........................................  6.3
        BKSTART LIBDECK entry .........................  2.3
 
        80.2    Index: C - D
 
        "cblth" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.2
        -cdate- TUTOR command .........................  3.2.3
        "cdisk" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.2
                                                         3.2.6.1
        central processor speed .......................  3.2.2.1
        changing a required master file ...............  6.2.3
        CI EQPDECK entry .............................. 21.1
        CIU ...........................................  3.2.6
                                                        21.1
                                                        21.2.1
                                                        21.2.2
                                                        22.1
                                                        22.3
        ciudiag ....................................... 22.3
        CM data transfer path .........................  2.2.1
 
                                                 page   87
 
 
 
                                                         3.2.6.1
                                                         6.1.1
        "cmp" .........................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.2
        CMRDECK .......................................  2.1
        CONDENSOR .....................................  3.2.2
                                                         3.2.2.1
                                                         3.2.5
                                                         3.2.6.1
                                                         4.1
                                                         7.3
                                                        22.1
                                                        22.3.1
                                                        22.4
        CONDENSOR statistics ..........................  3.2.2.1
        CONDX LIBDECK entry ...........................  2.3
        configuration file     (see "PLATO configuration file")
        CONFIGX LIBDECK entry .........................  2.3
        "confr" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.2
        console .......................................  3.2.9
                                                        22.3.2
        continuous polling ............................  4
        COPYPD LIBDECK entry ..........................  2.3
        "cpspd" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.2.1
                                                         7.2
                                                        22.2.3
        CPU priority ..................................  7.3
        "cshar" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.2.1
                                                         7.3
        "cstat" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.2.1
        -ctime- TUTOR command .........................  3.2.10
        "c0sit" ....................................... 21.2.1
        "c1sit" ....................................... 21.2.1
 
 
        "datef" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.3
        dayfile     (see "NOS dayfile")
        DAYFILE EQPDECK entry .........................  2.2
        DDP     (see "low-speed port")
        DELAY IPRDECK entry ...........................  2.4
        DUMPPRT LIBDECK entry .........................  2.3
        D1 EQPDECK entry ..............................  2.2.1
                                                         3.2.6.1
                                                         6.1.1
        D2 EQPDECK entry .............................. 21.1
 
        80.3    Index: E
 
        "edel1" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.3
                                                         5.3.4
        "edel2" .......................................  3.1
 
                                                 page   88
 
 
 
                                                         3.2.3
                                                         5.3.4
        "edel3" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.3
                                                         5.3.4
        "efrb" ........................................  20.2
        EM allocation table ...........................  4.1
                                                         8.1
        EM deletion ...................................  3.2.3
                                                         3.2.9
                                                         5.3.2
                                                         5.3.4
        EM manager ....................................  3.2.3
                                                         5.1
                                                         5.4
                                                         5.4.1
                                                         5.4.2
                                                         5.4.3
        EMDTAPE LIBDECK entry .........................  2.3
        "emgr1" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.3
                                                         5.4
                                                         5.4.1
        "emgr2" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.3
                                                         5.4
                                                         5.4.3
        "emgr3" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.3
                                                         5.4
                                                         5.4.1
        "emgr4" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.3
                                                         5.4
                                                         5.4.1
        EMPRT LIBDECK entry ...........................  2.3
        ENABLE IPRDECK entry ..........................  2.4
        ENDOFBC LIBDECK entry .........................  2.3
        enforcer ......................................  5.3.3
        EQPDECK .......................................  2.2
                                                         2.2.1
                                                         3.2.6.1
                                                         6.2.2
                                                         6.2.3
                                                        21.1
        ERRLOG EQPDECK entry ..........................  2.2
        error log     (see "NOS error log")
        ESM     (see also "program ESM") ..............  2.2.1
                                                         2.4
                                                         3.2.1
                                                         3.2.8
                                                         6.1.1
                                                        20.1
        ESM error monitoring ..........................  2.2.1
                                                        20.3
                                                        20.3.2
                                                        20.3.4
 
                                                 page   89
 
 
 
        ESM flawing ................................... 20.3.5
        ESM IPRDECK entry .............................  2.4
                                                        20.3.2
        ESM maintenance channel .......................  2.2.1
        ESM size ...................................... 20.3.6
        "estat" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.3
        "eted" ........................................ 21.2.1
        execution statistics ..........................  3.2.3
        executor     (see "PLATO executor")
 
        80.4    Index: F - L
 
        family     (see "NOS family")
        "famly" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.4
                                                        22.2.2
        "fastl" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.4
        "fdlay" ....................................... 21.2.1
        file management log ...........................  3.2.6
        "flx" .........................................  2.2
                                                         3.1
                                                         3.2.4
                                                         3.2.8
                                                        20.3.6
                                                        22.2.2
        "fofrl" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.4
        FORMCMD LIBDECK entry .........................  2.3
        "forml" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.4
        FRAMAT ........................................  3.2.4
                                                         3.2.6.2
                                                        22.1
                                                        22.3.1
        FRAMX LIBDECK entry ...........................  2.3
        "fram1" ....................................... 21.2.1
        "fram2" ....................................... 21.2.1
 
 
        group "coserv" ................................  3.2.9
        group "s" .....................................  3.2.9
 
 
        installation mode .............................  3.2.5
        "instl" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.5
        ipedit ........................................  4
                                                         6.2.2
                                                         6.2.3
                                                         9.1
                                                         9.2.1
                                                         9.2.2
                                                         9.2.3
                                                        22.4
        IPRDECK .......................................  2.4
 
                                                 page   90
 
 
 
                                                        20.3.2
        "ist3a" ....................................... 21.2.1
        "ist31" ....................................... 21.2.1
 
 
        "jbnks" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.5
        judge buffers .................................  3.2.5
 
 
        keyword definitions ...........................  3.2
        keyword types .................................  3.1
 
 
        ldr ...........................................  3.2.9
                                                        22.3.2
        LCONFIG ....................................... 22.1
                                                        22.2
        "lesns" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.5
                                                         5.4.1
        lesson buffer .................................  3.2.5
                                                         5.1
                                                         5.3
                                                         5.4
                                                         5.4.1
                                                         5.4.2
                                                         5.4.3
        lesson "pnet" .................................  4
                                                         8.1
                                                        21.2.1.1
        lesson "site" .................................  3.2.9
                                                         5.3.2
                                                         5.3.4
        lesson "sites" ................................  8.1.1
        LIBDECK .......................................  2.3
                                                         8.3
                                                        22.5
        logical site ..................................  3.2.6.2
                                                         5.2
                                                         5.3.3
                                                         5.3.4
        low-speed port ................................  2.2.1
                                                         3.2.6.1
                                                         3.2.7
                                                         6.1.1
                                                        20.1
                                                        20.4
 
        80.5    Index: M
 
        MAINLOG EQPDECK entry .........................  2.2
        maintenance log     (see "NOS maintenance log")
        MAS LIBDECK entry .............................  2.3
        master file ...................................  3.2.6.1
                                                         3.2.7
                                                         4
 
                                                 page   91
 
 
 
                                                         6.1
                                                         6.2.1
                                                         6.2.2
                                                         6.2.3
                                                         6.3
        MASTOR ........................................  2.2.1
                                                         2.4
                                                         6.1.1
        "mcond" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.5
        MFCREAT .......................................  6.1
                                                         6.2.2
        MFDX ..........................................  6.2.2
                                                         6.2.3
        MFDX LIBDECK entry ............................  2.3
        MFNX ..........................................  6.2.2
                                                         6.2.3
        MFNX LIBDECK entry ............................  2.3
        "mford" ....................................... 22.1
                                                        22.2.2
                                                        22.3.1
        MFPACK LIBDECK entry ..........................  2.3
        MFTCOPY LIBDECK entry .........................  2.3
        MFTLOAD LIBDECK entry .........................  2.3
        "mmf" ......................................... 22.2.2
                                                        22.3.1
        MRQ LIBDECK entry .............................  2.3
        multi-mainframe ...............................  3.2.5
                                                        22.1
        MXX ...........................................  2.2
 
        80.6    Index: N
 
        "nacnt" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.6
        "nalog" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.6
        "nam" .........................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.6
                                                        22.3.2
        "nampd" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.6
                                                        21.2.2
        "namto" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.6
        narfile .......................................  8.1
        "ncmb" ........................................  2.2.1
                                                         3.1
                                                         3.2.6.1
                                                         6.1.1
        "ncond" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.2
                                                         3.2.6.1
                                                        22.2.1
        "nc0si" ....................................... 21.2.1
        "nc1si" ....................................... 21.2.1
        "ndsus" .......................................  3.1
 
                                                 page   92
 
 
 
                                                         3.2.6.1
                                                         6.2.1
                                                         6.2.2
        netmon ........................................ 22.3
        "netms" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.6.1
                                                         9.2.1
        network database ..............................  3.2.7
                                                         4
        network management ............................  4
        network system table ..........................  3.2.6.1
                                                         4
                                                         9.2
        "nexec" ....................................... 22.2.1
                                                        22.3.1
 
        80.6.1    Index: NF
 
        "nfmtr" ....................................... 22.2.1
                                                        22.3.1
        "niob" ........................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.6.1
        "njob" ........................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.6.1
                                                        22.2.2
        "nmf" ......................................... 22.2.1
                                                        22.3.1
        "nn1si" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.6.2
                                                         3.2.6.3
                                                        22.3.2
        NOS account log ...............................  2.2
                                                         5.3.4
        NOS dayfile ...................................  2.2
        NOS error log .................................  2.2
                                                        20.3.2
        NOS family ....................................  3.2.4
        NOS maintenance log ...........................  2.2
        NOS password ..................................  3.2.7
        NOS user name .................................  3.2.7
                                                         3.2.9
                                                        22.2
        "nparc" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.6.2
        "npms" ........................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.6.1
                                                         3.2.6.2
                                                         6.1.1
        "nrunr" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.6.2
        "nsite" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.6.3
                                                         8.1
                                                        21.2.2
                                                        22.3.2
        "n1sit" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.6.3
 
                                                 page   93
 
 
 
                                                         8.1
                                                        22.3.2
 
        80.7    Index: O - P
 
        operator ......................................  6.2.1
        operator station ..............................  4
 
 
        PAFTERM LIBDECK entry .........................  2.3
        parcels .......................................  3.2.6.2
        "passw" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.7
                                                        22.2.2
        password time limit ...........................  3.2.7
        PCDCONV LIBDECK entry .........................  2.3
        PDCAT LIBDECK entry ...........................  2.3
        physical site .................................  3.2.6.3
        PIO ........................................... 21.1
                                                        21.2.2
        PLAINS. DSD-command ...........................  3.2.5
        PLATO account .................................  3.2.6
        PLATO configuration file ......................  2.2.1
                                                         3
            entry format ..............................  3
            keyword definitions .......................  3.2
            keyword types .............................  3.1
        PLATO. DSD-command ............................  2.4
        PLATO executor ................................ 22.1
                                                        22.2.3
                                                        22.3.1
                                                        22.3.2
                                                        22.5
        PLATO Installation Guide ......................  1
        PLATO Inter-system Link .......................  3.2.6.1
                                                         3.2.8
                                                         3.2.9
                                                         9
        PLATO Operations Guide ........................  1
                                                         2.3
                                                         3.2.6.2
                                                         4.1
                                                         6.2.2
                                                         6.2.3
                                                         8.1
        PLATO User's Guide ............................  1
        PLATOD ........................................  3.2.9
        PLATOMF ....................................... 22.2
        PLATX LIBDECK entry ...........................  2.3
        PLAUPD. DSD-command ...........................  3.2.5
        PMS ...........................................  2.2.1
                                                         3.2.6.1
                                                         3.2.6.2
                                                         6.1
        PMS LIBDECK entry .............................  2.3
        "pnet"     (see also "lesson pnet") ........... 21.2.1.1
        PNET lockout message ..........................  4
 
                                                 page   94
 
 
 
                                                        21.2.1.1
        PNI ...........................................  2.4
                                                         3.2.6
                                                         3.2.6.2
                                                         3.2.6.3
                                                         8.3
                                                        21.2.2
                                                        22.3.2
        PNIX LIBDECK entry ............................  2.3
        preferred language table ......................  4.1
        prime-time table ..............................  4
        prints ........................................  3.2.7
        program ESM ...................................  20.3
                                                         20.3.2
                                                         20.3.3
            ESM K-display .............................  20.3
                                                         20.3.3
                                                         20.3.4
                                                         20.3.5
                                                         20.3.6
        "prtun" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.7
        ptime .........................................  4
        "ptlim" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.7
        "pwbot" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.7
        "pwnot" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.7
        "pwoff" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.7
 
        80.8    Index: Q - R
 
        queue size ....................................  3.2.7
        "quesz" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.7
 
 
        RAFPDD  .......................................  5.3.2
        "rax" .........................................  2.2.1
                                                         3.1
                                                         3.2.4
                                                         3.2.8
                                                        20.3.6
                                                        22.2.2
        RECOVAL LIBDECK entry .........................  2.3
        RECOVMF LIBDECK entry .........................  2.3
        relocation memory .............................  2.4
                                                        20.3
                                                        20.3.2
                                                        20.3.3
        required master file table ....................  4
        restrict system personnel access ..............  4
        "rid" .........................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.8
        routing ID ....................................  3.2.8
 
                                                 page   95
 
 
 
        runner programs ...............................  3.2.6.2
                                                         3.2.6.3
                                                         5.3.3
                                                        21.2.2
                                                        21.3
                                                        22.3.2
 
        80.9    Index: S - Z
 
        "secur" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.9
                                                        22.2.2
                                                        22.3.2
        security level ................................  3.2.7
                                                         3.2.9
        services available time table .................  4
        SETPUN LIBDECK entry ..........................  2.3
        shared low-speed port/DDP .....................  2.2.1
                                                         6.1.1
        "sid" .........................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.9
        side-door port ................................  2.2.1
                                                        22.1
        signon display ................................  4
        site     (see "logical site", "physical site",
                  "lesson "site"", "lesson "sites"")
        SP EQPDECK entry ..............................  2.2.1
                                                        20.3.2
        special station list ..........................  4
        stats .........................................  5.3.2
        "subun" .......................................  3.1
                                                        22.2.2
        "syot" ........................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.9
                                                        22.2.2
                                                        22.3.2
        "sysac" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.9
                                                         4
        "sysdl" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.9
                                                         5.3.4
        sysfile .......................................  9.2.1
        system account log     (see "NOS account log")
        system dayfile     (see "NOS dayfile")
        system error log     (see "NOS error log")
        system ID .....................................  3.2.9
        system lesson access lists ....................  4
        system maintenance log     (see "NOS maintenance log")
        system1 .......................................  3.2.2.1
                                                         3.2.3
                                                         4.1
                                                         5.3.1
                                                         5.3.2
                                                         7.1
        s0calutil .....................................  4
        s0ciudiag ..................................... 21.3
 
                                                 page   96
 
 
 
        s0confer ......................................  3.2.2
        s0config ......................................  5.3.1
        s0cpspd .......................................  7.2
        s0cpudata .....................................  7.1
        s0cpustat .....................................  7.1
        s0esmerr ...................................... 20.3.2
        s0netwk .......................................  8.1
        s0rhp .........................................  9.2.1
                                                         9.2.2
        s0sysmsg ......................................  3.2.7
 
 
        tele-conferencing     (see "confr")
        terminal location list ........................  4.1
                                                         8.1
        TERM-confer     (see "confr")
        THRESHOLD EQPDECK entry .......................  2.2
        time zone .....................................  4
        "timef" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.10
        transfer path     (see "CM data transfer path")
        TUTOR command statistics ......................  3.2.2.1
                                                         3.2.3
 
 
        update level table ............................  4.1
        "users" .......................................  3.1
                                                         3.2.5
                                                         3.2.6.3
 
 
        VERSX LIBDECK entry ...........................  2.3
 
 
        Welcome to PLATO message ......................  4
 
 
        zlang .........................................  4.1
        zsystem .......................................  3.2.9
 
 
 
 
 
                               Table of Contents
 
 
        1    Introduction                                              1
 
        2    Deadstart File                                            2
        2.1    CMRDECKs                                                3
        2.2    EQPDECKs                                                4
        2.2.1    EQPDECKs                                              5
        2.3    LIBDECKs                                                7
        2.4    IPRDECKs                                                8
 
        3    The PLATO Configuration File                             10
        3.1    Types of Keywords                                      11
        3.2    Keyword Definitions                                    14
        3.2.1    Keywords: A - B                                      15
        3.2.2    Keywords: CA - CO                                    15
        3.2.2.1    Keywords: CP - CZ                                  16
        3.2.3    Keywords: D - E                                      18
        3.2.4    Keywords: F                                          20
        3.2.5    Keywords: G - M                                      21
        3.2.6    Keywords: NA - NB                                    23
        3.2.6.1    Keywords: NC - NM                                  24
        3.2.6.2    Keywords:  NN - NR                                 26
        3.2.6.3    Keywords: NS - NZ                                  27
        3.2.7    Keywords: O - Q                                      28
        3.2.8    Keywords: R                                          30
        3.2.9    Keywords: S                                          30
        3.2.10    Keywords: T - Z                                     32
 
        4    System Lesson Parameters                                 34
        4.1                                                           35
 
        5    EM Management                                            37
        5.1    The Lesson Buffer                                      37
        5.2    Logical Sites                                          37
        5.3    Allocateable EM                                        37
        5.3.1    How Much to Allocate                                 38
        5.3.2    Adjusting the Allocations                            38
        5.3.3    Actions to Correct Memory Shortages                  39
        5.3.4    Controlling EM Deletions                             40
        5.4    EM Manager Parameters                                  40
        5.4.1    Search Phase                                         41
        5.4.2    Delete Phase                                         42
        5.4.3    Compaction Phase                                     42
 
        6    Disk System Management                                   44
        6.1    Setting Up Your Disk System                            44
        6.1.1    Setting Up Your Disk (continued)                     45
        6.2    User File Space Management                             46
        6.2.1    File Space Monitoring                                46
        6.2.2    Adding a Required Master File                        46
        6.2.3    Changing a Required Master File                      47
        6.3    Binary File Space Management                           47
 
        7    CPU Usage Management                                     49
        7.1    Statistics Collection                                  49
 
 
 
 
        7.2    Adjusting "cpspd"                                      49
        7.3    Adjusting "cshar"                                      49
 
        8    Network Management                                       51
        8.1    Physical Sites                                         51
        8.1.1    Adding a New Physical Site                           51
        8.3    PLATO-NAM Interface (PNI)                              52
 
        9    System Network Management                                53
        9.1    Adding a System                                        53
        9.1.1    Check for enough room in table                       53
        9.1.2    Modify network configuration file                    54
        9.1.3    Modify PLATO network system table                    55
        9.1.3.1    Unconnected Systems                                56
        9.1.3.2    Directly Connected Systems                         56
        9.1.3.3    Indirectly Connected Systems                       57
        9.1.3.4    Final steps                                        58
        9.2    Deleting a System                                      59
        9.3    Renaming a System                                      59
        9.4    Link Accounting                                        59
        9.4.1    No Charge/Project Numbers                            60
        9.4.2    Default Charge/Project Numbers                       60
        9.4.3    Charge Initiating System                             60
 
        20    ESM Management                                          62
        20.1    ESM Management                                        63
        20.2    Configuration file keywords                           63
        20.3    Program ESM                                           63
        20.3.2    Automatic Loading and Monitoring                    65
        20.3.3    Reloading the Memory                                66
        20.3.4    Error Log Monitoring                                67
        20.3.5    Flawing banks                                       67
        20.3.6    Changing ESM size                                   67
        20.4    Low-speed port / DDP test program                     68
 
        21    Computer Interface Unit Network                         69
        21.1    EQPDECK entries                                       70
        21.2    Configuration file keywords                           70
        21.2.1    Unique keywords                                     70
        21.2.1.1    Unique keywords (continued)                       73
        21.2.2    Changes to other keywords                           73
        21.3    Runner programs                                       74
 
        22    Multi-mainframe                                         75
        22.1    Multi-mainframe Considerations                        76
        22.2    The "config" File                                     76
        22.2.1    Changes for Mainframe 0                             77
        22.2.2    Keywords required for all mainframes                77
        22.2.3    Keywords required for executors                     77
        22.3    Configuration file keywords                           77
        22.3.1    Unique keywords                                     77
        22.3.2    Changes to other keywords                           79
        22.4    System lesson parameters                              80
        22.5    LIBDECK Changes                                       81
 
        70    Release Changes                                         82
        70.1    Release Changes                                       83
 
 
 
 
 
        80    Index                                                   84
        80.1    Index: A - B                                          86
        80.2    Index: C - D                                          86
        80.3    Index: E                                              87
        80.4    Index: F - L                                          89
        80.5    Index: M                                              90
        80.6    Index: N                                              91
        80.6.1    Index: NF                                           92
        80.7    Index: O - P                                          93
        80.8    Index: Q - R                                          94
        80.9    Index: S - Z                                          95
 
    full  dayfile.  97/11/05. 06.00.46.*06.00.38* page    1
 
06.00.38.admi.
06.00.38.user,prints,,systfa.   admin3,s
06.00.38.absc,  s.
06.00.38.masjob,input,ss.
06.00.38.pf(pb,print,z,z),mods/prtsub,upperlower
06.00.38.note(param,nr)/77777777777777777777
06.00.38.note(param,nr)/77777777777777777777
06.00.38.pack,param.
06.00.38. pack complete.
06.00.38.note(printit,nr)/.proc,printit.
06.00.38.note(printit,nr)/docprt.pcguide,system,s,admin3
06.00.38.note(printit,nr)/*
06.00.38.pack(printit)
06.00.38. pack complete.
06.00.38.block,output.*cybis file*pcguide*admin3**s*
06.00.39.print(p0=,p1=$$,p2=$$,p3=$$)
06.00.39.setpr(30)
06.00.39.settl(7777)
06.00.39. tl = 7777.
06.00.39.*route,output,dc=pr,ic=bin,fc=as,def.
06.00.39.printit.
06.00.39.docprt.pcguide,system,s,admin3
06.00.46.    stop
06.00.46.    043700 maximum execution fl.
06.00.46.     1.035 cp seconds execution time.
06.00.46.*
06.00.46.$revert.ccl
06.00.46.dayfile.
06.00.56.UCLP, OK, 030,      6.592KLNS.
